ad sales boost time warner profit  quarterly profits at us media giant timewarner jumped 76% to $1.13bn (£600m) for the three months to december, from $639m year-earlier.  the firm, which is now one of the biggest investors in google, benefited from sales of high-speed internet connections and higher advert sales. timewarner said fourth quarter sales rose 2% to $11.1bn from $10.9bn. its profits were buoyed by one-off gains which offset a profit dip at warner bros, and less users for aol.  time warner said on friday that it now owns 8% of search-engine google. but its own internet business, aol, had has mixed fortunes. it lost 464,000 subscribers in the fourth quarter profits were lower than in the preceding three quarters. however, the company said aol's underlying profit before exceptional items rose 8% on the back of stronger internet advertising revenues. it hopes to increase subscribers by offering the online service free to timewarner internet customers and will try to sign up aol's existing customers for high-speed broadband. timewarner also has to restate 2000 and 2003 results following a probe by the us securities exchange commission (sec), which is close to concluding.  time warner's fourth quarter profits were slightly better than analysts' expectations. but its film division saw profits slump 27% to $284m, helped by box-office flops alexander and catwoman, a sharp contrast to year-earlier, when the third and final film in the lord of the rings trilogy boosted results. for the full-year, timewarner posted a profit of $3.36bn, up 27% from its 2003 performance, while revenues grew 6.4% to $42.09bn. "our financial performance was strong, meeting or exceeding all of our full-year objectives and greatly enhancing our flexibility," chairman and chief executive richard parsons said. for 2005, timewarner is projecting operating earnings growth of around 5%, and also expects higher revenue and wider profit margins.  timewarner is to restate its accounts as part of efforts to resolve an inquiry into aol by us market regulators. it has already offered to pay $300m to settle charges, in a deal that is under review by the sec. the company said it was unable to estimate the amount it needed to set aside for legal reserves, which it previously set at $500m. it intends to adjust the way it accounts for a deal with german music publisher bertelsmann's purchase of a stake in aol europe, which it had reported as advertising revenue. it will now book the sale of its stake in aol europe as a loss on the value of that stake. gallery unveils interactive tree  a christmas tree that can receive text messages has been unveiled at london's tate britain art gallery.  the spruce has an antenna which can receive bluetooth texts sent by visitors to the tate. the messages will be "unwrapped" by sculptor richard wentworth, who is responsible for decorating the tree with broken plates and light bulbs. it is the 17th year that the gallery has invited an artist to dress their christmas tree. artists who have decorated the tate tree in previous years include tracey emin in 2002.  the plain green norway spruce is displayed in the gallery's foyer. its light bulb adornments are dimmed, ordinary domestic ones joined together with string. the plates decorating the branches will be auctioned off for the children's charity artworks. wentworth worked as an assistant to sculptor henry moore in the late 1960s. his reputation as a sculptor grew in the 1980s, while he has been one of the most influential teachers during the last two decades. wentworth is also known for his photography of mundane, everyday subjects such as a cigarette packet jammed under the wonky leg of a table. labour plans maternity pay rise  maternity pay for new mothers is to rise by £1,400 as part of new proposals announced by the trade and industry secretary patricia hewitt.  it would mean paid leave would be increased to nine months by 2007, ms hewitt told gmtv's sunday programme. other plans include letting maternity pay be given to fathers and extending rights to parents of older children. the tories dismissed the maternity pay plan as "desperate", while the liberal democrats said it was misdirected.  ms hewitt said: "we have already doubled the length of maternity pay, it was 13 weeks when we were elected, we have already taken it up to 26 weeks. "we are going to extend the pay to nine months by 2007 and the aim is to get it right up to the full 12 months by the end of the next parliament." she said new mothers were already entitled to 12 months leave, but that many women could not take it as only six of those months were paid. "we have made a firm commitment. we will definitely extend the maternity pay, from the six months where it now is to nine months, that's the extra £1,400." she said ministers would consult on other proposals that could see fathers being allowed to take some of their partner's maternity pay or leave period, or extending the rights of flexible working to carers or parents of older children. the shadow secretary of state for the family, theresa may, said: "these plans were announced by gordon brown in his pre-budget review in december and tony blair is now recycling it in his desperate bid to win back women voters."  she said the conservatives would announce their proposals closer to the general election. liberal democrat spokeswoman for women sandra gidley said: "while mothers would welcome any extra maternity pay the liberal democrats feel this money is being misdirected." she said her party would boost maternity pay in the first six months to allow more women to stay at home in that time.  ms hewitt also stressed the plans would be paid for by taxpayers, not employers. but david frost, director general of the british chambers of commerce, warned that many small firms could be "crippled" by the move. "while the majority of any salary costs may be covered by the government's statutory pay, recruitment costs, advertising costs, retraining costs and the strain on the company will not be," he said. further details of the government's plans will be outlined on monday. new mothers are currently entitled to 90% of average earnings for the first six weeks after giving birth, followed by £102.80 a week until the baby is six months old. claxton hunting first major medal  british hurdler sarah claxton is confident she can win her first major medal at next month's european indoor championships in madrid.  the 25-year-old has already smashed the british record over 60m hurdles twice this season, setting a new mark of 7.96 seconds to win the aaas title. "i am quite confident," said claxton. "but i take each race as it comes. "as long as i keep up my training but not do too much i think there is a chance of a medal." claxton has won the national 60m hurdles title for the past three years but has struggled to translate her domestic success to the international stage. now, the scotland-born athlete owns the equal fifth-fastest time in the world this year. and at last week's birmingham grand prix, claxton left european medal favourite russian irina shevchenko trailing in sixth spot.  for the first time, claxton has only been preparing for a campaign over the hurdles - which could explain her leap in form. in previous seasons, the 25-year-old also contested the long jump but since moving from colchester to london she has re-focused her attentions. claxton will see if her new training regime pays dividends at the european indoors which take place on 5-6 march. ink helps drive democracy in asia  the kyrgyz republic, a small, mountainous state of the former soviet republic, is using invisible ink and ultraviolet readers in the country's elections as part of a drive to prevent multiple voting.  this new technology is causing both worries and guarded optimism among different sectors of the population. in an effort to live up to its reputation in the 1990s as "an island of democracy", the kyrgyz president, askar akaev, pushed through the law requiring the use of ink during the upcoming parliamentary and presidential elections. the us government agreed to fund all expenses associated with this decision.  the kyrgyz republic is seen by many experts as backsliding from the high point it reached in the mid-1990s with a hastily pushed through referendum in 2003, reducing the legislative branch to one chamber with 75 deputies. the use of ink is only one part of a general effort to show commitment towards more open elections - the german embassy, the soros foundation and the kyrgyz government have all contributed to purchase transparent ballot boxes.  the actual technology behind the ink is not that complicated. the ink is sprayed on a person's left thumb. it dries and is not visible under normal light.  however, the presence of ultraviolet light (of the kind used to verify money) causes the ink to glow with a neon yellow light. at the entrance to each polling station, one election official will scan voter's fingers with uv lamp before allowing them to enter, and every voter will have his/her left thumb sprayed with ink before receiving the ballot. if the ink shows under the uv light the voter will not be allowed to enter the polling station. likewise, any voter who refuses to be inked will not receive the ballot. these elections are assuming even greater significance because of two large factors - the upcoming parliamentary elections are a prelude to a potentially regime changing presidential election in the autumn as well as the echo of recent elections in other former soviet republics, notably ukraine and georgia. the use of ink has been controversial - especially among groups perceived to be pro-government.  widely circulated articles compared the use of ink to the rural practice of marking sheep - a still common metaphor in this primarily agricultural society.  the author of one such article began a petition drive against the use of the ink. the greatest part of the opposition to ink has often been sheer ignorance. local newspapers have carried stories that the ink is harmful, radioactive or even that the ultraviolet readers may cause health problems. others, such as the aggressively middle of the road, coalition of non-governmental organizations, have lauded the move as an important step forward. this type of ink has been used in many elections in the world, in countries as varied as serbia, south africa, indonesia and turkey. the other common type of ink in elections is indelible visible ink - but as the elections in afghanistan showed, improper use of this type of ink can cause additional problems. the use of "invisible" ink is not without its own problems. in most elections, numerous rumors have spread about it.  in serbia, for example, both christian and islamic leaders assured their populations that its use was not contrary to religion. other rumours are associated with how to remove the ink - various soft drinks, solvents and cleaning products are put forward. however, in reality, the ink is very effective at getting under the cuticle of the thumb and difficult to wash off. the ink stays on the finger for at least 72 hours and for up to a week. the use of ink and readers by itself is not a panacea for election ills. the passage of the inking law is, nevertheless, a clear step forward towards free and fair elections." the country's widely watched parliamentary elections are scheduled for 27 february.  david mikosz works for the ifes, an international, non-profit organisation that supports the building of democratic societies. dollar gains on greenspan speech  the dollar has hit its highest level against the euro in almost three months after the federal reserve head said the us trade deficit is set to stabilise.  and alan greenspan highlighted the us government's willingness to curb spending and rising household savings as factors which may help to reduce it. in late trading in new york, the dollar reached $1.2871 against the euro, from $1.2974 on thursday. market concerns about the deficit has hit the greenback in recent months. on friday, federal reserve chairman mr greenspan's speech in london ahead of the meeting of g7 finance ministers sent the dollar higher after it had earlier tumbled on the back of worse-than-expected us jobs data. "i think the chairman's taking a much more sanguine view on the current account deficit than he's taken for some time," said robert sinche, head of currency strategy at bank of america in new york. "he's taking a longer-term view, laying out a set of conditions under which the current account deficit can improve this year and next."  worries about the deficit concerns about china do, however, remain. china's currency remains pegged to the dollar and the us currency's sharp falls in recent months have therefore made chinese export prices highly competitive. but calls for a shift in beijing's policy have fallen on deaf ears, despite recent comments in a major chinese newspaper that the "time is ripe" for a loosening of the peg. the g7 meeting is thought unlikely to produce any meaningful movement in chinese policy. in the meantime, the us federal reserve's decision on 2 february to boost interest rates by a quarter of a point - the sixth such move in as many months - has opened up a differential with european rates. the half-point window, some believe, could be enough to keep us assets looking more attractive, and could help prop up the dollar. the recent falls have partly been the result of big budget deficits, as well as the us's yawning current account gap, both of which need to be funded by the buying of us bonds and assets by foreign firms and governments. the white house will announce its budget on monday, and many commentators believe the deficit will remain at close to half a trillion dollars. jarre joins fairytale celebration  french musician jean-michel jarre is to perform at a concert in copenhagen to mark the bicentennial of the birth of writer hans christian andersen.  denmark is holding a three-day celebration of the life of the fairy-tale author, with a concert at parken stadium on 2 april. other stars are expected to join the line-up in the coming months, and the danish royal family will attend. "christian andersen's fairy tales are timeless and universal," said jarre. "for all of us, at any age there is always - beyond the pure enjoyment of the tale - a message to learn." there are year-long celebrations planned across the world to celebrate andersen and his work, which includes the emperor's new clothes and the little mermaid. denmark's crown prince frederik and crown princess mary visited new york on monday to help promote the festivities. the pair were at a manhattan library to honour us literary critic harold bloom "the international icon we thought we knew so well".  "bloom recognizes the darker aspects of andersen's authorship," prince frederik said. bloom is to be formally presented with the hans christian andersen award this spring in anderson's hometown of odense. the royal couple also visited the hans christian anderson school complex, where queen mary read the ugly duckling to the young audience. later at a gala dinner, danish supermodel helena christensen was named a hans christian andersen ambassador. other ambassadors include actors harvey keitel and sir roger moore, athlete cathy freeman and brazilian soccer legend pele. watchdog probes e-mail deletions  the information commissioner says he is urgently asking for details of cabinet office orders telling staff to delete e-mails more than three months old.  richard thomas "totally condemned" the deletion of e-mails to prevent their disclosure under freedom of information laws coming into force on 1 january. government guidance said e-mails should only be deleted if they served "no current purpose", mr thomas said. the tories and the lib dems have questioned the timing of the new rules.  tory leader michael howard has written to tony blair demanding an explanation of the new rules on e-mail retention. on monday lib dem constitutional affairs committee chairman alan beith warned that the deletion of millions of government e-mails could harm the ability of key probes like the hutton inquiry. the timing of the new rules just before the freedom of information act comes into forces was "too unlikely to have been a coincidence", mr beith said. but a cabinet office spokeswoman said the move was not about the new laws or "the destruction of important records". mr beith urged the information commissioner to look at how the "e-mail regime" could "support the freedom of information regime".  mr thomas said: "the new act of parliament makes it very clear that to destroy records in order to prevent their disclosure becomes a criminal offence." he said there was already clear guidance on the retention of e-mails contained in a code of practice from the lord chancellor. all e-mails are subject to the freedom of information laws, but the important thing was the content of the e-mail, said mr thomas.  "if in doubt retain, that has been the long-standing principle of the civil service and public authorities. it's only when you've got no further use for the particular record that it may be legitimate to destroy it. "but any deliberate destruction to avoid the possibility of later disclosure is to be totally condemned." the freedom of information act will cover england, wales and northern ireland from next year. similar measures are being brought in at the same time in scotland. it provides the public with a right of access to information held by about 100,000 public bodies, subject to various exemptions. its implementation will be monitored by the information commissioner. o'sullivan could run in worlds  sonia o'sullivan has indicated that she would like to participate in next month's world cross country championships in st etienne.  athletics ireland have hinted that the 35-year-old cobh runner may be included in the official line-up for the event in france on 19-20 march. provincial teams were selected after last saturday's nationals in santry and will be officially announced this week. o'sullivan is at present preparing for the london marathon on 17 april. the participation of o'sullivan, currentily training at her base in australia, would boost the ireland team who won the bronze three years agio. the first three at santry last saturday, jolene byrne, maria mccambridge and fionnualla britton, are automatic selections and will most likely form part of the long-course team. o'sullivan will also take part in the bupa great ireland run on 9 april in dublin. china net cafe culture crackdown  chinese authorities closed 12,575 net cafes in the closing months of 2004, the country's government said.  according to the official news agency most of the net cafes were closed down because they were operating illegally. chinese net cafes operate under a set of strict guidelines and many of those most recently closed broke rules that limit how close they can be to schools. the move is the latest in a series of steps the chinese government has taken to crack down on what it considers to be immoral net use.  the official xinhua news agency said the crackdown was carried out to create a "safer environment for young people in china". rules introduced in 2002 demand that net cafes be at least 200 metres away from middle and elementary schools. the hours that children can use net cafes are also tightly regulated. china has long been worried that net cafes are an unhealthy influence on young people. the 12,575 cafes were shut in the three months from october to december. china also tries to dictate the types of computer games people can play to limit the amount of violence people are exposed to.  net cafes are hugely popular in china because the relatively high cost of computer hardware means that few people have pcs in their homes. this is not the first time that the chinese government has moved against net cafes that are not operating within its strict guidelines. all the 100,000 or so net cafes in the country are required to use software that controls what websites users can see. logs of sites people visit are also kept. laws on net cafe opening hours and who can use them were introduced in 2002 following a fire at one cafe that killed 25 people. during the crackdown following the blaze authorities moved to clean up net cafes and demanded that all of them get permits to operate. in august 2004 chinese authorities shut down 700 websites and arrested 224 people in a crackdown on net porn. at the same time it introduced new controls to block overseas sex sites. the reporters without borders group said in a report that chinese government technologies for e-mail interception and net censorship are among the most highly developed in the world. yukos unit buyer faces loan claim  the owners of embattled russian oil giant yukos are to ask the buyer of its former production unit to pay back a $900m (£479m) loan.  state-owned rosneft bought the yugansk unit for $9.3bn in a sale forced by russia to part settle a $27.5bn tax claim against yukos. yukos' owner menatep group says it will ask rosneft to repay a loan that yugansk had secured on its assets. rosneft already faces a similar $540m repayment demand from foreign banks. legal experts said rosneft's purchase of yugansk would include such obligations. "the pledged assets are with rosneft, so it will have to pay real money to the creditors to avoid seizure of yugansk assets," said moscow-based us lawyer jamie firestone, who is not connected to the case. menatep group's managing director tim osborne told the reuters news agency: "if they default, we will fight them where the rule of law exists under the international arbitration clauses of the credit."  rosneft officials were unavailable for comment. but the company has said it intends to take action against menatep to recover some of the tax claims and debts owed by yugansk. yukos had filed for bankruptcy protection in a us court in an attempt to prevent the forced sale of its main production arm. the sale went ahead in december and yugansk was sold to a little-known shell company which in turn was bought by rosneft. yukos claims its downfall was punishment for the political ambitions of its founder mikhail khodorkovsky and has vowed to sue any participant in the sale. musical treatment for capra film  the classic film it's a wonderful life is to be turned into a musical by the producer of the controversial hit show jerry springer - the opera.  frank capra's 1946 movie starring james stewart, is being turned into a £7m musical by producer jon thoday. he is working with steve brown, who wrote the award-winning musical spend spend spend. a spokeswoman said the plans were in the "very early stages", with no cast, opening date or theatre announced.  a series of workshops have been held in london, and on wednesday a cast of singers unveiled the musical to a select group of potential investors. mr thoday said the idea of turning the film into a musical had been an ambition of his for almost 20 years. it's a wonderful life was based on a short story, the greatest gift, by philip van doren stern. mr thoday managed to buy the rights to the story from van doren stern's family in 1999, following mr brown's success with spend spend spend. he later secured the film rights from paramount, enabling them to use the title it's a wonderful life. hewitt decries 'career sexism'  plans to extend paid maternity leave beyond six months should be prominent in labour's election manifesto, the trade and industry secretary has said.  patricia hewitt said the cost of the proposals was being evaluated, but it was an "increasingly high priority" and a "shared goal across government". ms hewitt was speaking at a gender and productivity seminar organised by the equal opportunities commission (eoc). mothers can currently take up to six months' paid leave - and six unpaid. ms hewitt told the seminar: "clearly, one of the things we need to do in the future is to extend the period of payment for maternity leave beyond the first six months into the second six months. "we are looking at how quickly we can do that, because obviously there are cost implications because the taxpayer reimburses the employers for the cost of that."  ms hewitt also announced a new drive to help women who want to work in male dominated sectors, saying sexism at work was still preventing women reaching their full potential. plans include funding for universities to help female science and engineering graduates find jobs and "taster courses" for men and women in non-traditional jobs. women in full-time work earn 19% less than men, according to the equal opportunities commission (eoc).  the minister told delegates that getting rid of "career sexism" was vital to closing the gender pay gap.  "career sexism limits opportunities for women of all ages and prevents them from achieving their full potential. "it is simply wrong to assume someone cannot do a job on the grounds of their sex," she said. earlier, she told bbc radio 4's today programme: "what we are talking about here is the fact that about six out of 20 women work in jobs that are low-paid and typically dominated by women, so we have got very segregated employment. "unfortunately, in some cases, this reflects very old-fashioned and stereotypical ideas about the appropriate jobs for women, or indeed for men. "career sexism is about saying that engineering, for instance, where only 10% of employees are women, is really a male-dominated industry. construction is even worse. "but it is also about saying childcare jobs are really there for women and not suitable for men. career sexism goes both ways."  she added that while progress had been made, there was still a gap in pay figures. "the average woman working full-time is being paid about 80p for every pound a man is earning. for women working part-time it is 60p." the department for trade and industry will also provide funding to help a new pay experts panel run by the tuc.  it has been set up to advise hundreds of companies on equal wage policies. research conducted by the eoc last year revealed that many britons believe the pay gap between men and women is the result of "natural differences" between the sexes. women hold less than 10% of the top positions in ftse 100 companies, the police, the judiciary and trade unions, according to their figures. and retired women have just over half the income of their male counterparts on average. greene sets sights on world title  maurice greene aims to wipe out the pain of losing his olympic 100m title in athens by winning a fourth world championship crown this summer.  he had to settle for bronze in greece behind fellow american justin gatlin and francis obikwelu of portugal. "it really hurts to look at that medal. it was my mistake. i lost because of the things i did," said greene, who races in birmingham on friday. "it's never going to happen again. my goal - i'm going to win the worlds." greene crossed the line just 0.02 seconds behind gatlin, who won in 9.87 seconds in one of the closest and fastest sprints of all time. but greene believes he lost the race and his title in the semi-finals. "in my semi-final race, i should have won the race but i was conserving energy. "that's when francis obikwelu came up and i took third because i didn't know he was there. "i believe that's what put me in lane seven in the final and, while i was in lane seven, i couldn't feel anything in the race.  "i just felt like i was running all alone. "i believe if i was in the middle of the race i would have been able to react to people that came ahead of me." greene was also denied olympic gold in the 4x100m men's relay when he could not catch britain's mark lewis-francis on the final leg. the kansas star is set to go head-to-head with lewis-francis again at friday's norwich union grand prix. the pair contest the 60m, the distance over which greene currently holds the world record of 6.39 seconds. he then has another indoor meeting in france before resuming training for the outdoor season and the task of recapturing his world title in helsinki in august. greene believes gatlin will again prove the biggest threat to his ambitions in finland. but he also admits he faces more than one rival for the world crown. "there's always someone else coming. i think when i was coming up i would say there was me and ato (boldon) in the young crowd," greene said. "now you've got about five or six young guys coming up at the same time." microsoft seeking spyware trojan  microsoft is investigating a trojan program that attempts to switch off the firm's anti-spyware software.  the spyware tool was only released by microsoft in the last few weeks and has been downloaded by six million people. stephen toulouse, a security manager at microsoft, said the malicious program was called bankash-a trojan and was being sent as an e-mail attachment. microsoft said it did not believe the program was widespread and recommended users to use an anti-virus program. the program attempts to disable or delete microsoft's anti-spyware tool and suppress warning messages given to users.  it may also try to steal online banking passwords or other personal information by tracking users' keystrokes.  microsoft said in a statement it is investigating what it called a criminal attack on its software. earlier this week, microsoft said it would buy anti-virus software maker sybari software to improve its security in its windows and e-mail software. microsoft has said it plans to offer its own paid-for anti-virus software but it has not yet set a date for its release. the anti-spyware program being targeted is currently only in beta form and aims to help users find and remove spyware - programs which monitor internet use, causes advert pop-ups and slow a pc's performance. high fuel prices hit ba's profits  british airways has blamed high fuel prices for a 40% drop in profits.  reporting its results for the three months to 31 december 2004, the airline made a pre-tax profit of £75m ($141m) compared with £125m a year earlier. rod eddington, ba's chief executive, said the results were "respectable" in a third quarter when fuel costs rose by £106m or 47.3%. ba's profits were still better than market expectation of £59m, and it expects a rise in full-year revenues.  to help offset the increased price of aviation fuel, ba last year introduced a fuel surcharge for passengers.  in october, it increased this from £6 to £10 one-way for all long-haul flights, while the short-haul surcharge was raised from £2.50 to £4 a leg. yet aviation analyst mike powell of dresdner kleinwort wasserstein says ba's estimated annual surcharge revenues - £160m - will still be way short of its additional fuel costs - a predicted extra £250m. turnover for the quarter was up 4.3% to £1.97bn, further benefiting from a rise in cargo revenue. looking ahead to its full year results to march 2005, ba warned that yields - average revenues per passenger - were expected to decline as it continues to lower prices in the face of competition from low-cost carriers. however, it said sales would be better than previously forecast. "for the year to march 2005, the total revenue outlook is slightly better than previous guidance with a 3% to 3.5% improvement anticipated," ba chairman martin broughton said. ba had previously forecast a 2% to 3% rise in full-year revenue.  it also reported on friday that passenger numbers rose 8.1% in january. aviation analyst nick van den brul of bnp paribas described ba's latest quarterly results as "pretty modest". "it is quite good on the revenue side and it shows the impact of fuel surcharges and a positive cargo development, however, operating margins down and cost impact of fuel are very strong," he said. since the 11 september 2001 attacks in the united states, ba has cut 13,000 jobs as part of a major cost-cutting drive. "our focus remains on reducing controllable costs and debt whilst continuing to invest in our products," mr eddington said. "for example, we have taken delivery of six airbus a321 aircraft and next month we will start further improvements to our club world flat beds." ba's shares closed up four pence at 274.5 pence. richard and judy choose top books  the 10 authors shortlisted for a richard and judy book award in 2005 are hoping for a boost in sales following the success of this year's winner.  the tv couple's interest in the book world coined the term "the richard & judy effect" and created the top two best-selling paperbacks of 2004 so far. the finalists for 2005 include andrew taylor's the american boy and robbie williams' autobiography feel. this year's winner, alice sebold's the lovely bones, sold over one million. joseph o'connor's star of the sea came second and saw sales increase by 350%. the best read award, on richard madeley and judy finnigan's channel 4 show, is part of the british book awards. david mitchell's booker-shortlisted novel, cloud atlas, makes it into this year's top 10 along with several lesser known works.  "there's no doubt that this year's selection of book club entries is the best yet. if anything, the choice is even wider than last time," said madeley. "it was very hard to follow last year's extremely successful list, but we think this year's books will do even better," said richard and judy executive producer amanda ross. "we were spoiled for choice and it was tough getting down to only 10 from the 301 submitted." labour chooses manchester  the labour party will hold its 2006 autumn conference in manchester and not blackpool, it has been confirmed.  the much trailed decision was ratified by labour's ruling national executive committee in a break with the traditional choice of a seaside venue. it will be the first time since 1917 that the party has chosen manchester to host the annual event. blackpool will get the much smaller february spring conference instead in what will be seen as a placatory move.  for years the main political parties have rotated between blackpool, bournemouth and brighton. and the news the much larger annual conference is not to gather in blackpool will be seen as a blow in the coastal resort. in 1998 the party said it would not return to blackpool but did so in 2002. the following year bournemouth hosted the event before the party signed a two year deal for brighton to host the autumn conference.  colin asplin, blackpool hotel association said: "we have tried very hard to make sure they come back to blackpool. "obviously we have failed in that. i just hope manchester can handle the crowds. "it amazes me that the labour party, which is a working class party, doesn't want to come to the main working class resort in the country." the exact cost to blackpool in terms of lost revenue for hotel accommodation is not yet known but it is thought that block bookings will be taken at the major manchester hotels after the official announcement. iaaf launches fight against drugs  the iaaf - athletics' world governing body - has met anti-doping officials, coaches and athletes to co-ordinate the fight against drugs in sport.  two task forces have been set up to examine doping and nutrition issues. it was also agreed that a programme to "de-mystify" the issue to athletes, the public and the media was a priority. "nothing was decided to change things - it was more to have a forum of the stakeholders allowing them to express themselves," said an iaaf spokesman. "getting everyone together gave us a lot of food for thought." about 60 people attended sunday's meeting in monaco, including iaaf chief lamine diack and namibian athlete frankie fredericks, now a member of the athletes' commission. "i am very happy to see you all, members of the athletics family, respond positively to the iaaf call to sit together and discuss what more we can do in the fight against doping," said diack. "we are the leading federation in this field and it is our duty to keep our sport clean." the two task forces will report back to the iaaf council, at its april meeting in qatar. digital guru floats sub-$100 pc  nicholas negroponte, chairman and founder of mit's media labs, says he is developing a laptop pc that will go on sale for less than $100 (£53).  he told the bbc world service programme go digital he hoped it would become an education tool in developing countries. he said one laptop per child could be " very important to the development of not just that child but now the whole family, village and neighbourhood". he said the child could use the laptop like a text book. he described the device as a stripped down laptop, which would run a linux-based operating system, "we have to get the display down to below $20, to do this we need to rear project the image rather than using an ordinary flat panel.  "the second trick is to get rid of the fat , if you can skinny it down you can gain speed and the ability to use smaller processors and slower memory." the device will probably be exported as a kit of parts to be assembled locally to keep costs down. mr negroponte said this was a not for profit venture, though he recognised that the manufacturers of the components would be making money. in 1995 mr negroponte published the bestselling being digital, now widely seen as predicting the digital age. the concept is based on experiments in the us state of maine, where children were given laptop computers to take home and do their work on.  while the idea was popular amongst the children, it initially received some resistance from the teachers and there were problems with laptops getting broken. however, mr negroponte has adapted the idea to his own work in cambodia where he set up two schools together with his wife and gave the children laptops. "we put in 25 laptops three years ago , only one has been broken, the kids cherish these things, it's also a tv a telephone and a games machine, not just a textbook." mr negroponte wants the laptops to become more common than mobile phones but conceded this was ambitious. "nokia make 200 million cell phones a year, so for us to claim we're going to make 200 million laptops is a big number, but we're not talking about doing it in three or five years, we're talking about months." he plans to be distributing them by the end of 2006 and is already in discussion with the chinese education ministry who are expected to make a large order. "in china they spend $17 per child per year on textbooks. that's for five or six years, so if we can distribute and sell laptops in quantities of one million or more to ministries of education that's cheaper and the marketing overheads go away." pernod takeover talk lifts domecq  shares in uk drinks and food firm allied domecq have risen on speculation that it could be the target of a takeover by france's pernod ricard.  reports in the wall street journal and the financial times suggested that the french spirits firm is considering a bid, but has yet to contact its target. allied domecq shares in london rose 4% by 1200 gmt, while pernod shares in paris slipped 1.2%. pernod said it was seeking acquisitions but refused to comment on specifics.  pernod's last major purchase was a third of us giant seagram in 2000, the move which propelled it into the global top three of drinks firms. the other two-thirds of seagram was bought by market leader diageo. in terms of market value, pernod - at 7.5bn euros ($9.7bn) - is about 9% smaller than allied domecq, which has a capitalisation of £5.7bn ($10.7bn; 8.2bn euros). last year pernod tried to buy glenmorangie, one of scotland's premier whisky firms, but lost out to luxury goods firm lvmh. pernod is home to brands including chivas regal scotch whisky, havana club rum and jacob's creek wine. allied domecq's big names include malibu rum, courvoisier brandy, stolichnaya vodka and ballantine's whisky - as well as snack food chains such as dunkin' donuts and baskin-robbins ice cream. the wsj said that the two were ripe for consolidation, having each dealt with problematic parts of their portfolio. pernod has reduced the debt it took on to fund the seagram purchase to just 1.8bn euros, while allied has improved the performance of its fast-food chains. poppins musical gets flying start  the stage adaptation of children's film mary poppins has had its opening night in london's west end.  sir cameron mackintosh's lavish production, which has cost £9m to bring to the stage, was given a 10-minute standing ovation. lead actress laura michelle kelly soared over the heads of the audience holding the nanny's trademark umbrella. technical hitches had prevented mary poppins' flight into the auditorium during preview performances. a number of celebrities turned out for the musical's premiere, including actress barbara windsor, comic graham norton and sir richard attenborough.  the show's director richard eyre issued a warning earlier in the week that the show was unsuitable for children under seven, while under-threes are barred. mary poppins was originally created by author pamela travers, who is said to have cried when she saw disney's 1964 film starring julie andrews. travers had intended the story to be a lot darker than the perennial family favourite. theatre impresario sir cameron mackintosh has said he hopes the musical is a blend of the sweet-natured film and the original book. brown ally rejects budget spree  chancellor gordon brown's closest ally has denied suggestions there will be a budget giveaway on 16 march.  ed balls, ex-chief economic adviser to the treasury, said there would be no spending spree before polling day. but mr balls, a prospective labour mp, said he was confident the chancellor would meet his fiscal rules. he was speaking as sir digby jones, cbi director general, warned mr brown not to be tempted to use any extra cash on pre-election bribes.  mr balls, who stepped down from his treasury post to stand as a labour candidate in the election, had suggested that mr brown would meet his golden economic rule - "with a margin to spare". he said he hoped more would be done to build on current tax credit rules.  he also stressed rise in interest rates ahead of an expected may election would not affect the labour party's chances of winning. expectations of a rate rise have gathered pace after figures showed house prices are still rising. consumer borrowing rose at a near-record pace in january. "if the mpc (the bank of england's monetary policy committee) were to judge that a rate rise was justified before the election because of the strength of the economy - and i'm not predicting that they will - i do not believe that this will be a big election issue in britain for labour," he told a parliamentary lunch. "this is a big change in our political culture."  during an interview with bbc radio 4's today programme, mr balls said he was sure mr brown's budget would not put at risk the stability of the economy. "i don't think we'll see a pre-election spending spree - we certainly did not see that before 2001," he said.  his assurances came after sir digby jones said stability was all important and any extra cash should be spent on improving workers' skills. his message to the chancellor was: "please don't give it away in any form of electioneering." sir digby added: "i don't think he will. i have to say he has been a prudent chancellor right the way through. stability is the key word - british business needs boring stability more than anything. "we would say to him 'don't increase your public spending, don't give it away. but if you are going to anywhere, just add something to the competitiveness of britain, put it into skilling our people'. "that would be a good way to spend any excess."  mr balls refused to say whether mr brown would remain as chancellor after the election, amid speculation he will be offered the job of foreign secretary. "i think that gordon brown wants to be part of the successful labour government which delivers in the third term for the priorities of the people and sees off a conservative party that will take britain backwards," mr balls told today. prime minister tony blair has yet to name the date of the election, but most pundits are betting on 5 may. dibaba breaks 5,000m world record  ethiopia's tirunesh dibaba set a new world record in winning the women's 5,000m at the boston indoor games.  dibaba won in 14 minutes 32.93 seconds to erase the previous world indoor mark of 14:39.29 set by another ethiopian, berhane adera, in stuttgart last year. but compatriot kenenisa bekele's record hopes were dashed when he miscounted his laps in the men's 3,000m and staged his sprint finish a lap too soon. ireland's alistair cragg won in 7:39.89 as bekele battled to second in 7:41.42. "i didn't want to sit back and get out-kicked," said cragg. "so i kept on the pace. the plan was to go with 500m to go no matter what, but when bekele made the mistake that was it. the race was mine." sweden's carolina kluft, the olympic heptathlon champion, and slovenia's jolanda ceplak had winning performances, too. kluft took the long jump at 6.63m, while ceplak easily won the women's 800m in 2:01.52. technology gets the creative bug  the hi-tech and the arts worlds have for some time danced around each other and offered creative and technical help when required.  often this help has come in the form of corporate art sponsorship or infrastructure provision. but that dance is growing more intimate as hi-tech firms look to the creative industries for inspiration. and vice versa. uk telco bt is serious about the idea and has launched its connected world initiative. the idea, says bt, is to shape a "21st century model" which will help cement the art, technology, and business worlds together. "we are hoping to understand the creative industry that has a natural thirst for broadband technology," said frank stone, head of the bt's business sector programmes. he looks after several "centres of excellence" which the telco has set up with other institutions and organisations, one of which is focused on creative industries.  to mark the initiative's launch, a major international art installation is to open on 15 april in brussels, with a further exhibit in madrid later in the summer. they have both been created using the telco's technology that it has been incubating at its research and development arm, including a sophisticated graphics rendering program. using a 3d graphics engine, the type commonly used in gaming, bafta-winning artists langlands & bell have created a virtual, story-based, 3d model of brussels' coudenberg cellars.  they have recently been excavated and are thought to be the remnants of coudenberg palace, an historical seat of european power. the 3d world can be navigated using a joystick and offers an immersive experience of a landscape that historically had a river running through it until it was bricked up in the 19th century. "the river was integral to the city's survival for hundreds of years and it was equally essential to the city that it disappeared," said the artists. "we hope that by uncovering the river, we can greater understand the connections between the past and the present, and appreciate the flow of modernity, once concealing, but now revealing the river senne." in their previous works they used the quake game graphics engine. the game engine is the core component of a video game because it handles graphics rendering, game ai, and how objects behave and relate to each other in a game. they are so time-consuming and expensive to create, the engines can be licensed out to handle other graphics-intensive games. bt's own engine, tara (total abstract rendering architecture) has been in development since 2001 and has been used to recreate virtual interactive models of buildings for planners. it was also used in 2003 in encounter, an urban-based, pervasive game that combined both virtual play in conjunction with physical, on-the-street action. because the artists wanted video and interactive elements in their worlds, new features were added to tara in order to handle the complex data sets. but collaboration between art and digital technology is by no means new, and many keen coders, designers, games makers and animators argue that what they create is art itself.  as more tools for self-expression are given to the person on the street, enabling people to take photos with a phone and upload them to the web for instance, creativity will become an integral part of technology. the orange expressionist exhibition last year, for example, displayed thousands of picture messages from people all over the uk to create an interactive installation.  technology as a way of unleashing creativity has massive potential, not least because it gives people something to do with their technology. big businesses know it is good for them to get in on the creative vein too. the art world is "fantastically rich", said mr stone, with creative people and ideas which means traditional companies like bt want to get in with them. between 1997 and 2002, the creative industry brought £21 billion to london alone. it is an industry that is growing by 6% a year too. the partnership between artists and technologists is part of trying to understand the creative potential of technologies like broadband net, according to mr stone. "this is not just about putting art galleries and museums online," he said. "it is about how can everyone have the best seat in house and asking if technology has a role in solving that problem." with broadband penetration reaching 100% in the uk, businesses with a stake in the technology want to give people reasons to want and use it. the creative drive is not purely altruistic obviously. it is about both industries borrowing strategies and creative ideas together which can result in better business practices for creative industries, or more patent ideas for tech companies. "what we are trying to do is have outside-in thinking. "we are creating a future cultural drive for the economy," said mr stone. japan narrowly escapes recession  japan's economy teetered on the brink of a technical recession in the three months to september, figures show.  revised figures indicated growth of just 0.1% - and a similar-sized contraction in the previous quarter. on an annual basis, the data suggests annual growth of just 0.2%, suggesting a much more hesitant recovery than had previously been thought. a common technical definition of a recession is two successive quarters of negative growth.  the government was keen to play down the worrying implications of the data. "i maintain the view that japan's economy remains in a minor adjustment phase in an upward climb, and we will monitor developments carefully," said economy minister heizo takenaka. but in the face of the strengthening yen making exports less competitive and indications of weakening economic conditions ahead, observers were less sanguine. "it's painting a picture of a recovery... much patchier than previously thought," said paul sheard, economist at lehman brothers in tokyo. improvements in the job market apparently have yet to feed through to domestic demand, with private consumption up just 0.2% in the third quarter. bennett play takes theatre prizes  the history boys by alan bennett has been named best new play in the critics' circle theatre awards.  set in a grammar school, the play also earned a best actor prize for star richard griffiths as teacher hector. the producers was named best musical, victoria hamilton was best actress for suddenly last summer and festen's rufus norris was named best director. the history boys also won the best new comedy title at the theatregoers' choice awards.  partly based upon alan bennett's experience as a teacher, the history boys has been at london's national theatre since last may. the critics' circle named rebecca lenkiewicz its most promising playwright for the night season, and eddie redmayne most promising newcomer for the goat or, who is sylvia?  paul rhys was its best shakespearean performer for measure for measure at the national theatre and christopher oram won the design award for suddenly last summer. both the critics' circle and whatsonstage.com theatregoers' choice award winners were announced on tuesday. chosen by more than 11,000 theatre fans, the theatregoers' choice awards named us actor christian slater best actor for one flew over the cuckoo's nest. diana rigg was best actress for suddenly last summer, dame judi dench was best supporting actress for the rsc's all's well that ends well and the history boys' samuel barnett was best supporting actor. 'errors' doomed first dome sale  the initial attempt to sell the millennium dome failed due to a catalogue of errors, a report by the government's finance watchdog says.  the report said too many parties were involved in decision-making when the attraction first went on sale after the millennium exhibition ended. the national audit office said the dome cost taxpayers £28.7m to maintain and sell in the four years after it closed. finally, a deal to turn it into a sport and entertainment venue was struck. more than £550m could now be returned to the public sector in the wake of the deal to regenerate the site in greenwich, london.  the nao report said that this sale went through because it avoided many of the problems of the previous attempt to sell the dome. deputy prime minister john prescott said a good deal had been secured. "delivery of the many benefits secured through this deal will continue the substantial progress already made at the millennium village and elsewhere on the peninsula," he said. but edward leigh, who is chairman of the commons public accounts committee, warned the government would have to work hard to ensure taxpayers would get full benefit from the dome deal. he said: "this report also shows that the first attempt to sell the dome proved a complete fiasco. every arm of government seems to have had a finger in the pie. the process was confused and muddled." he added: "four years after the millennium exhibition closed, the government finally has a deal to find a use for what has been a white elephant since it closed in a deal that, incredible as it may seem, should bring in some money and provide a benefit for the local area and the country as whole. however, it was more a question of luck that a strong bid turned up after thefirst abortive attempt." nao head sir john bourn said: "in difficult circumstances following the failure of the first competition, english partnerships and the office of the deputy prime minister have worked hard to get a deal." isinbayeva claims new world best  pole vaulter yelena isinbayeva broke her own indoor world record by clearing 4.89 metres in lievin on saturday.  it was the russian's 12th world record of her career and came just a few days after she cleared 4.88m at the norwich union grand prix in birmingham. the olympic champion went on to attempt 5.05m at the meeting on france but failed to clear that height. in the men's 60m, former olympic 100m champion maurice greene could only finish second to leonard scott. it was greene's second consecutive defeat at the hands of his fellow american, who also won in birmingham last week. "i ran my race perfectly," said scott, who won in 6.46secs, his best time indoors. "i am happy even if i know that maurice is a long way from being at his peak at the start of the season." wi-fi web reaches farmers in peru  a network of community computer centres, linked by wireless technology, is providing a helping hand for poor farmers in peru.  the pilot scheme in the huaral valley, 80 kilometres north of the capital lima, aims to offer the 6,000-strong community up-to-date information on agricultural market prices and trends. the agricultural information project for farmers of the chancay-huaral valley also provides vital links between local organisations in charge of water irrigation, enabling them to coordinate their actions. more than 13,000 rural inhabitants, as well as 18,000 students in the region, will also benefit from the telecoms infrastructure.  the 14 telecentres uses only free open source software and affordable computer equipment. the network has been three years in the making and was officially inaugurated in september.  the non-government organisation, cepes (peruvian centre for social studies) led the $200,000 project, also backed by local institutions, the education and agriculture ministries, and european development organisations. "the plan includes training on computers and internet skills for both operators and users of the system," said carlos saldarriaga, technical coordinator at cepes. farmers are also taking extra lessons on how to apply the new information to make the most of their plots of land. the board of irrigation users which runs the computer centres, aims to make the network self-sustainable within three years, through the cash generated by using the telecentres as internet cafes.  one of the key elements of the project is the agricultural information system, with its flagship huaral.org website. there, farmers can find the prices for local produce, as well as information on topics ranging from plague prevention to the latest farming techniques. the system also helps the inhabitants of the chancay-huaral valley to organise their vital irrigation systems. "water is the main element that unites them all. it is a precious element in peru's coastal areas, because it is so scarce, and therefore it is necessary to have proper irrigation systems to make the most of it," mr saldarriaga told the bbc news website. the information network also allows farmers to look beyond their own region, and share experiences with other colleagues from the rest of peru and even around the world.  cepes says the involvement of the farmers has been key in the project's success. "throughout the last three years, the people have provided a vital thrust to the project; they feel it belongs to them," said mr saldarriaga. the community training sessions, attended by an equal number of men and women, have been the perfect showcase for their enthusiasm. "we have had an excellent response, mainly from young people. but we have also had a great feedback when we trained 40 or 50-year old women, who were seeing a computer for the first time in their lives." so far, the huaral programme promoters say the experience has been very positive, and are already planning on spreading the model among other farmers' organisations in peru. "this is a pilot project, and we have been very keen on its cloning potential in other places," underlined mr saldarriaga.  the cepes researcher recalls what happened in cuyo, a 50-family community with no electricity, during the construction of the local telecentre site. there it was necessary to build a mini-hydraulic dam in order to generate 2kw worth of power for the computers, the communications equipment and the cabin lights. "it was already dark when the technicians realised they didn't have any light bulbs to test the generator, so they turned up to the local store to buy light bulbs," recalls carlos saldarriaga. "the logical answer was 'we don't sell any', so they had to wait until the next morning to do the testing." now, with the wireless network, cuyo as well as the other communities is no longer isolated. jobs growth still slow in the us  the us created fewer jobs than expected in january, but a fall in jobseekers pushed the unemployment rate to its lowest level in three years.  according to labor department figures, us firms added only 146,000 jobs in january. the gain in non-farm payrolls was below market expectations of 190,000 new jobs. nevertheless it was enough to push down the unemployment rate to 5.2%, its lowest level since september 2001. the job gains mean that president bush can celebrate - albeit by a very fine margin - a net growth in jobs in the us economy in his first term in office. he presided over a net fall in jobs up to last november's presidential election - the first president to do so since herbert hoover. as a result, job creation became a key issue in last year's election. however, when adding december and january's figures, the administration's first term jobs record ended in positive territory.  the labor department also said it had revised down the jobs gains in december 2004, from 157,000 to 133,000.  analysts said the growth in new jobs was not as strong as could be expected given the favourable economic conditions. "it suggests that employment is continuing to expand at a moderate pace," said rick egelton, deputy chief economist at bmo financial group. "we are not getting the boost to employment that we would have got given the low value of the dollar and the still relatively low interest rate environment." "the economy is producing a moderate but not a satisfying amount of job growth," said ken mayland, president of clearview economics. "that means there are a limited number of new opportunities for workers." levy tipped for whitbread prize  novelist andrea levy is favourite to win the main whitbread prize book of the year award, after winning novel of the year with her book small island.  the book has already won the orange prize for fiction, and is now 5/4 favourite for the £25,000 whitbread. second favourite is a biography of mary queen of scots, by john guy. a panel of judges including sir trevor mcdonald, actor hugh grant and writer joanne harris will decide the overall winner on tuesday.  the five writers in line for the award won their respective categories - first novel, novel, biography, poetry and children's book - on 6 january. small island, levy's fourth novel, is set in post-war london and centres on a landlady and her lodgers. one is a jamaican who joined british troops to fight hitler but finds life difficult out of uniform when he settles in the uk. "what could have been a didactic or preachy prospect turns out to hilarious, moving humane and eye-popping. it's hard to think of anybody not enjoying it," wrote the judges. the judges called guy's my heart is my own: the life of mary queen of scots "an impressive and readable piece of scholarship, which cannot fail but leave the reader moved and intrigued by this most tragic and likeable of queens". guy has published many histories, including one of tudor england. he is a fellow at clare college, cambridge and became a honorary research professor of the university of st andrews in 2003.  the other contenders include susan fletcher for eve green, which won the first novel prize. fletcher has recently graduated from the university of east anglia's creative writing course. the fourth book in the running is corpus, michael symmons roberts' fourth collection of poems. as well as writing poetry, symmons roberts also makes documentary films. geraldine mccaughrean is the final contender, having won the children's fiction category for the third time for not the end of the world. mccaughrean, who went into magazine publishing after studying teaching, previously won the category in 1987 with a little lower than angels and in 1994 with gold dust. fox attacks blair's tory 'lies'  tony blair lied when he took the uk to war so has no qualms about lying in the election campaign, say the tories.  tory co-chairman liam fox was speaking after mr blair told labour members the tories offered a "hard right agenda". dr fox told bbc radio: "if you are willing to lie about the reasons for going to war, i guess you are going to lie about anything at all." he would not discuss reports the party repaid £500,000 to lord ashcroft after he predicted an election defeat.  the prime minister ratcheted up labour's pre-election campaigning at the weekend with a helicopter tour of the country and his speech at the party's spring conference. he insisted he did not know the poll date, but it is widely expected to be 5 may.  in what was seen as a highly personal speech in gateshead on sunday, mr blair said: "i have the same passion and hunger as when i first walked through the door of 10 downing street." he described his relationship with the public as starting euphoric, then struggling to live up to the expectations, and reaching the point of raised voices and "throwing crockery". he warned his supporters against complacency, saying: "it's a fight for the future of our country, it's a fight that for britain and the people of britain we have to win."  mr blair said that whether the public chose michael howard or mr kennedy, it would result in "a tory government not a labour government and a country that goes back and does not move forward". dr fox accused mr blair and other cabinet ministers of telling lies about their opponents' policies and then attacking the lies. "what we learned at the weekend is what labour tactics are going to be and it's going to be fear and smear," he told bbc news. the tory co-chairman attacked labour's six new pledges as "vacuous" and said mr blair was very worried voters would take revenge for his failure to deliver. dr fox refused to discuss weekend newspaper reports that the party had repaid £500,000 to former tory treasurer lord ashcroft after he said the party could not win the election. "we repay loans when they are due but do not comment to individual financial matters," he said, insisting he enjoyed a "warm and constructive" relationship to lord ashcroft.  meanwhile lib dem leader charles kennedy is expected to attack mr blair's words as he begins a nationwide tour on monday. mr kennedy is accelerating lib dem election preparations this week as he visits manchester, liverpool, leicester, somerset, basingstoke, shrewsbury, dorset and torbay. he said: "this is three-party politics. in the northern cities, the contest is between labour and the liberal democrats. "in southern and rural seats - especially in the south west - the principal contenders are the liberal democrats and the conservatives, who are out of the running in scotland and wales." the lib dems accuse mr blair of making a "touchy-feely" speech to labour delegates which will not help him regain public trust. o'sullivan commits to dublin race  sonia o'sullivan will seek to regain her title at the bupa great ireland run on 9 april in dublin.  the 35-year-old was beaten into fourth at last year's event, having won it a year earlier. "i understand she's had a solid winter's training down in australia after recovering from a minor injury," said race director matthew turnbull. mark carroll, irish record holder at 3km, 5km and 10km, will make his debut in the mass participation 10km race. carroll has stepped up his form in recent weeks and in late january scored an impressive 3,000m victory over leading american alan webb in boston. carroll will be facing stiff competition from australian craig mottram, winner in dublin for the last two years. microsoft releases bumper patches  microsoft has warned pc users to update their systems with the latest security fixes for flaws in windows programs.  in its monthly security bulletin, it flagged up eight "critical" security holes which could leave pcs open to attack if left unpatched. the number of holes considered "critical" is more than usual. they affect windows programs, including internet explorer (ie), media player and instant messaging. four other important fixes were also released. these were considered to be less critical, however. if not updated, either automatically or manually, pc users running the programs could be vulnerable to viruses or other malicious attacks designed to exploit the holes. many of the flaws could be used by virus writers to take over computers remotely, install programs, change, and delete or see data.  one of the critical patches microsoft has made available is an important one that fixes some ie flaws. stephen toulouse, a microsoft security manager, said the flaws were known about, and although the firm had not seen any attacks exploiting the flaw, he did not rule them out. often, when a critical flaw is announced, spates of viruses follow because home users and businesses leave the flaw unpatched. a further patch fixes a hole in media player, windows messenger and msn messenger which an attacker could use to take control of unprotected machines through .png files. microsoft announces any vulnerabilities in its software every month. the most important ones are those which are classed as "critical". its latest releases came the week that the company announced it was to buy security software maker sybari software as part of microsoft's plans to make its own security programs. india calls for fair trade rules  india, which attends the g7 meeting of seven leading industrialised nations on friday, is unlikely to be cowed by its newcomer status.  in london on thursday ahead of the meeting, india's finance minister, lashed out at the restrictive trade policies of the g7 nations. he objected to subsidies on agriculture that make it hard for developing nations like india to compete. he also called for reform of the united nations, the world bank and the imf.  palaniappan chidambaram, india's finance minister, argued that these organisations need to take into account the changing world order, given india and china's integration into the global economy. he said the issue is not globalisation but "the terms of engagement in globalisation." mr chidambaram is attending the g7 meeting as part of the g20 group of nations, which account for two thirds of the world's population. at a conference on developing enterprise hosted by uk finance minister gordon brown on friday, he said that he was in favour of floating exchange rates because they help countries cope with economic shocks. "a flexible exchange rate is one more channel for absorbing both positive and negative shocks," he told the conference. india, along with china, brazil, south africa and russia, has been invited to take part in the g7 meeting taking place in london on friday and saturday. china is expected to face renewed pressure to abandon its fixed exchange rate, which g7 nations, in particular the us, have blamed for a surge in cheap chinese exports. "some countries have tried to use fixed exchange rates. i do not wish to make any judgements," mr chidambaram said. separately, the imf warned on thursday that india's budget deficit was too large and would hamper the country's economic growth, which it forecast to be around 6.5% in the year to march 2005. in the year to march 2004, the indian economy grew by 8.5%. west end to honour finest shows  the west end is honouring its finest stars and shows at the evening standard theatre awards in london on monday.  the producers, starring nathan lane and lee evans, is up for best musical at the ceremony at the national theatre. it is competing against sweeney todd and a funny thing happened on the way to the forum for the award. the goat or who is sylvia? by edward albee, the pillowman by martin mcdonagh and alan bennett's the history boys are shortlisted in the best play category.  pam ferris, victoria hamilton and kelly reilly are nominated for best actress. ferris - best known for her television roles in programmes such as the darling buds of may - has made the shortlist for her role in notes on falling leaves, at the royal court theatre. meanwhile, richard griffiths, who plays hector in the history boys at the national theatre, will battle it out for the best actor award with douglas hodge (dumb show) and stanley townsend (shining city). the best director shortlist includes luc bondy for cruel and tender, simon mcburney for measure for measure, and rufus norris for festen.  festen is also shortlisted in the best designer category where ian macneil, jean kalman and paul arditti will be up against hildegard bechtler, for iphigenia at aulis, and paul brown, for false servant. the milton shulman award for outstanding newcomer will be presented to dominic cooper (his dark materials and the history boys), romola garai (calico), eddie redmayne (the goat, or who is sylvia?) or ben wishaw (hamlet). and playwrights david eldridge, rebecca lenkiewicz and owen mccafferty will fight it out for the charles wintour award and a £30,000 bursary. three 50th anniversary special awards will also be presented to an institution, a playwright and an individual. women mps reveal sexist taunts  women mps endure "shocking" levels of sexist abuse at the hands of their male counterparts, a new study shows.  male mps pretended to juggle imaginary breasts and jeered "melons" as women made commons speeches, researchers from birkbeck college were told. labour's yvette cooper said she found it hard to persuade commons officials she was a minister and not a secretary. some 83 mps gave their answers in 100 hours of taped interviews for the study "whose secretary are you, minister".  the research team, under professor joni lovenduski, had set out to look at the achievements and experiences of women at westminster. but what emerged was complaints from mps of all parties of sexist barracking in the chamber, sexist insults and patronising assumptions about their abilities. barbara follet, one of the so-called "blair babes" elected in 1997, told researchers: "i remember some conservatives - whenever a labour woman got up to speak they would take their breasts - imaginary breasts - in their hands and wiggle them and say 'melons' as we spoke." former liberal democrat mp jackie ballard recalled a stream of remarks from a leading mp on topics such as women's legs or their sexual persuasion. and ex-tory education secretary gillian shepherd remembered how one of her male colleagues called all women "betty".  "when i said, 'look you know my name isn't betty', he said, 'ah but you're all the same, so i call you all betty'." harriet harman told researchers of the sheer hostility prompted by her advancement to the cabinet: "well, you've only succeeded because you're a woman." another current member of the cabinet says she was told: "oh, you've had a very fast rise, who have you been sleeping with?" even after the great influx of women mps at the 1997 general election, and greater numbers of women in the cabinet, female mps often say they feel stuck on the edge of a male world.  liberal democrat sarah teather, the most recent female mp to be elected, told researchers: "lots of people say it's like an old boys club. "i've always said to me it feels more like a teenage public school - you know a public school full of teenagers." prof joni lovenduski, who conducted the study with the help of margaret moran mp and a team of journalists, said she was shocked at the findings. "we expected a bit of this but nothing like this extent. we expected to find a couple of shocking episodes." but she said there was a difference between the experiences of women before the 1997 intake and afterwards. this was mainly because there were more women present in parliament who were not prepared to "put up with" the sexist attitudes they came across, prof lovenduski said. but she added: "some women, including the women who came in 1997, received extraordinary treatment and i am not convinced that if the number of women changed back to what it was before 1997 that things would not change back. "what i think is shocking to the general public is that these things go on in the house of commons." the interviews are to be placed in the british library as a historical record. hansen 'delays return until 2006'  british triple jumper ashia hansen has ruled out a comeback this year after a setback in her recovery from a bad knee injury, according to reports.  hansen, the commonwealth and european champion, has been sidelined since the european cup in poland in june 2004. it was hoped she would be able to return this summer, but the wound from the injury has been very slow to heal. her coach aston moore told the times: "we're not looking at any sooner than 2006, not as a triple jumper." moore said hansen may be able to return to sprinting and long jumping sooner, but there is no short-term prospect of her being involved again in her specialist event. "there was a problem with the wound healing and it set back her rehabilitation by about two months, but that has been solved and we can push ahead now," he said. "the aim is for her to get fit as an athlete - then we will start looking at sprinting and the long jump as an introduction back to the competitive arena." moore said he is confident hansen can make it back to top-level competition, though it is unclear if that will be in time for the commonwealth games in melbourne next march, when she will be 34. "it's been a frustrating time for her, but it has not fazed her determination," he added. virus poses as christmas e-mail  security firms are warning about a windows virus disguising itself as an electronic christmas card.  the zafi.d virus translates the christmas greeting on its subject line into the language of the person receiving infected e-mail. anti-virus firms speculate that this multilingual ability is helping the malicious program spread widely online. anti-virus firm sophos said that 10% of the e-mail currently on the net was infected with the zafi virus.  like many other windows viruses, zafi-d plunders microsoft outlook for e-mail addresses and then uses mail-sending software to despatch itself across the web to new victims. to be infected users must open up the attachment travelling with the message which bears the code for the malicious bug. the attachment on the e-mail poses as an electronic christmas card but anyone opening it will simply get a crude image of two smiley faces.  the virus' subject line says "merry christmas" and translates this into one of 15 languages depending of the final suffix of the e-mail address the infected message has been sent to. the message in the body of the e-mail reads: "happy holidays" and this too is translated. on infected machines the virus tries to disable anti-virus and firewall software and opens up a backdoor on the pc to hand over control to the writer of the virus. the virus is thought to have spread most widely in south america, italy, spain, bulgaria and hungary. the original zafi virus appeared in april this year. "we have seen these hoaxes for several christmases already, and personally i prefer traditional pen and paper cards, and we recommend this to all our clients too," said mikko hypponen, who heads f-secure's anti-virus team. ethiopia's crop production up 24%  ethiopia produced 14.27 million tonnes of crops in 2004, 24% higher than in 2003 and 21% more than the average of the past five years, a report says.  in 2003, crop production totalled 11.49 million tonnes, the joint report from the food and agriculture organisation and the world food programme said. good rains, increased use of fertilizers and improved seeds contributed to the rise in production. nevertheless, 2.2 million ethiopians will still need emergency assistance.  the report calculated emergency food requirements for 2005 to be 387,500 tonnes. on top of that, 89,000 tonnes of fortified blended food and vegetable oil for "targeted supplementary food distributions for a survival programme for children under five and pregnant and lactating women" will be needed.  in eastern and southern ethiopia, a prolonged drought has killed crops and drained wells. last year, a total of 965,000 tonnes of food assistance was needed to help seven million ethiopians. the food and agriculture organisation (fao) recommend that the food assistance is bought locally. "local purchase of cereals for food assistance programmes is recommended as far as possible, so as to assist domestic markets and farmers," said henri josserand, chief of fao's global information and early warning system. agriculture is the main economic activity in ethiopia, representing 45% of gross domestic product. about 80% of ethiopians depend directly or indirectly on agriculture. da vinci code is 'lousy history'  the plot of an international bestseller that thousands of readers are likely to receive as a christmas present is 'laughable', a clergyman has said.  the da vinci code claims jesus was not crucified, but married mary magdalene and died a normal death. it claims this was later covered up by the church. the bishop of durham, the rt rev dr tom wright, described the novel as a "great thriller" but "lousy history". the book has sold more than seven million copies worldwide. despite enjoying dan brown's conspiracy theory, the bishop said there was a lack of evidence to back up its claims.  writing his christmas message in the northern echo, the bishop said: "conspiracy theories are always fun - fun to invent, fun to read, fun to fantasise about. "dan brown is the best writer i've come across in the genre, but anyone who knows anything about 1st century history will see that this underlying material is laughable." a great deal of credible evidence proves the biblical version of jesus' life was true, according to the bishop. "the evidence for jesus and the origins of christianity is astonishingly good," he said. "we have literally a hundred times more early manuscripts for the gospels and letters in the new testament than we have for the main classical authors like cicero, virgil and tacitus.  "historical research shows that they present a coherent and thoroughly credible picture of jesus, with all sorts of incidental details that fit the time when he lived, and don't fit the world of later legend." brown's book has become a publishing phenomenon, consistently topping book charts in the uk and us. the da vinci code has been translated into 42 languages and has spawned its own cottage industry of publications, including guides on to how to read the book, rebuttals and counter claims. the book, which has become an international best-seller in little over two years, is set to be made into a film starring tom hanks. campbell: e-mail row 'silly fuss'  ex-no 10 media chief alastair campbell is at the centre of a new political row over an e-mail containing a four-letter outburst aimed at bbc journalists.  mr campbell sent the missive by mistake to bbc2's newsnight after it sought to question his role in labour's controversial poster campaign. he later contacted the show saying the original e-mail had been sent in error and that it was all a "silly fuss". mr campbell has recently re-joined labour's election campaign.  the e-mail was revealed the day after peter mandelson, former labour minister and now a european commissioner, warned the bbc to steer away from "demonising" mr campbell. mr campbell messaged newsnight after the programme investigated claims that labour's advertising agency tbwa was blaming him for controversy over its campaign posters. the images, including one of flying pigs and another of what critics claim depicted tory leader michael howard as fagin, prompted accusations of anti-semitism, claims denied by labour.  mr campbell's e-mail, which was apparently intended for a party official, suggested they should get trevor beattie, tbwa's boss, to issue a statement. in it, he said: "just spoke to trev. think tbwa shd give statement to newsnight saying party and agency work together well and nobody here has spoken to standard. posters done by by tbwa according to political brief. now fuck off and cover something important you twats!" the e-mail was sent by mistake to newsnight journalist andrew mcfadyen. realising his error, mr campbell then e-mailed mr mcfadyen pointing out the mistake, but suggesting presenter jeremy paxman would have seen the funny side.  he said: "not very good at this e-mail blackberry malarkey. just looked at log of sent messages, have realised e-mail meant for colleagues at tbwa has gone to you. for the record, first three sentences of email spot on. no row between me and trevor. "posters done by them according to our brief. i dreamt up flying pigs. pigs not great but okay in the circs of tories promising tax cuts and spending rises with the same money. tbwa made production. "campbell swears shock. final sentence of earlier e-mail probably a bit colourful and personal considering we have never actually met but i'm sure you share the same sense of humour as your star presenter mr p. "never known such a silly fuss since the last silly fuss but there we go. must look forward not back."  later the prime minister's spokesman was asked by journalists about his view on mr campbell's use of abusive language. the spokesman said: "the person you are referring to is capable of speaking for himself and he no longer works in government." foreign secretary jack straw said he had always had "very good and polite relations" with mr campbell, who he described as "very talented". but on the former spin doctor's use of language, mr straw said: "i do know the odd journalist who has occasionally used the odd word that would probably be inappropriate in some circumstances. maybe i mix with the wrong kind of journalists." liam fox, tory co-chairman, said the return of mr campbell was a sign of new "sinister and underhand tactics" by labour. off-colour gardener storms to win  britain's jason gardener shook off an upset stomach to win the 60m at sunday's leipzig international meeting.  gardener clocked 6.56 seconds to equal the meeting record and finished well ahead of germany's marc blume, who crossed the line in 6.67 secs. the world indoor champion said: "i got to the airport and my stomach was upset and i was vomiting. i almost went home. "i felt a little better sunday morning but decided i'd only run in the main race. then everything went perfectly." gardener, part of the great britain 4x100m quartet that won gold at the athens olympics, will now turn his attention to next weekend's norwich union european indoor trials in sheffield.  "given i am still off-colour i know there is plenty more in the tank and i expect to get faster in the next few weeks," he said. "it's just a case of chipping away as i have done in previous years and the results will come." scotland's ian mackie was also in action in leipzig. he stepped down from his favoured 400m to 200m to finish third in 21.72 secs. germany's alexander kosenkow won the race in 21.07 secs with dutchman patrick van balkom second in 21.58 secs. there were plenty of other senior british athletes showing their indoor form over the weekend. promising 60m hurdler  clocked a new uk record of 7.98 seconds at a meeting in norway. the 24-year-old reached the mark in her heat but had to settle for joint first place with former aaa champion diane allahgreen in the final.  , who broke onto the international scene at the olympic games last season, set an indoor personal best of 16.50m in the triple jump at a meeting in ghent. that leap - 37cm short of brazilian winner jadel gregorio's effort - was good enough to qualify for the european indoor championships. at the same meeting,  finished third in 7.27 seconds in a high-class women's 60m. the event was won by european medal favourite christine arron of france while belgium rival kim gevaert was second. britain's joice maduaka finished fifth in 7.35. olympic bronze heptathlon medallist  made a low-key return to action at an indoor meeting in birmingham. the 28-year-old cleared 1.76m to win the high jump and threw 13.86m in the women's shot put. apple laptop is 'greatest gadget'  the apple powerbook 100 has been chosen as the greatest gadget of all time, by us magazine mobile pc.  the 1991 laptop was chosen because it was one of the first "lightweight" portable computers and helped define the layout of all future notebook pcs. the magazine has compiled an all-time top 100 list of gadgets, which includes the sony walkman at number three and the 1956 zenith remote control at two. gadgets needed moving parts and/or electronics to warrant inclusion. the magazine specified that gadgets also needed to be a "self-contained apparatus that can be used on its own, not a subset of another device".  "in general we included only items that were potentially mobile," said the magazine.  "in the end, we tried to get to the heart of what really makes a gadget a gadget," it concluded. the oldest "gadget" in the top 100 is the abacus, which the magazine dates at 190 a.d., and put in 60th place. other pre-electronic gadgets in the top 100 include the sextant from 1731 (59th position), the marine chronometer from 1761 (42nd position) and the kodak brownie camera from 1900 (28th position). the tivo personal video recorder is the newest device to make the top 10, which also includes the first flash mp3 player (diamound multimedia), as well as the first "successful" digital camera (casio qv-10) and mobile phone (motorola startac). the most popular gadget of the moment, the apple ipod, is at number 12 in the list while the first sony transistor radio is at number 13.  sony's third entry in the top 20 is the cdp-101 cd player from 1983. "who can forget the crystalline, hiss-free blast of madonna's like a virgin emenating from their first cd player?" asked the magazine. karl elsener's knife, the swiss army knife from 1891, is at number 20 in the list. gadgets which could be said to feature surprisngly low down in the list include the original telephone (23rd), the nintendo gameboy (25th), and the pulsar quartz digital watch (36th). the list also contains plenty of oddities: the pez sweet dispenser (98th), 1980s toy tamagotchi (86th) and the bizarre ronco inside the shell egg scrambler (84th).  why worry about mobile phones. soon they will be subsumed into the pda's / laptops etc.  what about the marine chronometer? completely revolutionised navigation for boats and was in use for centuries. for it's time, a technological marvel!  sony net minidisc! it paved the way for more mp3 player to explode onto the market. i always used my netmd, and could not go anywhere without it.  a laptop computer is not a gadget! it's a working tool!  the sinclair executive was the world's first pocket calculator. i think this should be there as well.  how about the clockwork radio? or gps? or a pocket calculator? all these things are useful to real people, not just pc magazine editors.  are the people who created this list insane ? surely the most important gadget of the modern age is the mobile phone? it has revolutionalised communication, which is more than can be said for a niche market laptop. from outside the modern age, the marine chronometer is the single most important gadget, without which modern transportation systems would not have evolved so quickly.  has everyone forgot about the breville pie maker??  an interesting list. of the electronic gadgets, thousands of journalists in the early 1980s blessed the original noteboook pc - the tandy 100. the size of a4 paper and light, three weeks on a set of batteries, an excellent keyboard, a modem. a pity tandy did not make it dos compatible.  what's an apple powerbook 100 ? it's out of date - not much of a "gadget". surely it has to be something simple / timeless - the tin opener, swiss army knife, safety razor blade, wristwatch or the thing for taking stones out of horses hooves ?  it has to be the mobile phone. no other single device has had such an effect on our way of living in such a short space of time.  the ball point pen has got to be one of the most used and common gadgets ever. also many might be grateful for the pocket calculator which was a great improvement over the slide rule.  the casio pocket calculator that played a simple game and made tinny noises was also a hot gadget in 1980. a true gadget, it could be carried around and shown off.  all top 10 are electronic toys, so the list is probably a better reflection of the current high-tech obsession than anyhting else. i say this as the swiss army knife only made no 20.  sinclair ql a machine far ahead of its time. the first home machine with a true multi-takings os. shame the marketing was so bad!!!  apple.. a triumph of fashion over... well everything else.  utter rubbish. yes, the apple laptop and sony walkman are classic gadgets. but to call the sextant and the marine chronometer 'gadgets' and rank them as less important than a tv remote control reveals a quite shocking lack of historical perspective. the former literally helped change the world by vastly improving navigation at see. the latter is the seed around which the couch potato culture has developed. no competition.  i'd also put apple's newton and the first palm pilot there as the front runners for portable computing, and possibly the toshiba libretto for the same reason. i only wish that vulcan inc's flipstart wasn't just vapourware otherwise it would be at the top.  how did a laptop ever manage to beat off the challenge of the wristwatch or the telephone (mobile or otherwise)? what about radios and tvs?  the swiss army knife. by far the most useful gadget. i got mine 12 years ago. still wearing and using it a lot! it stood the test of time.  psion organiser series 3, should be up there. had a usable qwerty keyboard, removable storage, good set of apps and programmable. case design was good (batteries in the hinge - a first, i think). great product innovation.  the first mobile pc was voted best gadget by readers of...err... mobile pc?! why do you keep putting these obviously biased lists on your site? it's obviously the mobile phone or remote control, and readers of a less partisan publication would tell you that.  the motorola startac should be number one. why? there will be mobile phones long after notebook computers and other gadgets are either gone or integrated in communications devices.  the psion series 3c! the first most practical way to carry all your info around...  i too would back the sinclair spectrum - without this little beauty i would never have moved into the world of it and earn the living that i do now.  i'd have put the mobile phone high up the list. probably a nokia model.  sinclair spectrum - 16k. it plugged into the tv. games were rubbish but it gave me a taste for programming and that's what i do for a living now.  i wish more modern notebooks -- even apple's newest offerings -- were more like the pb100. particularly disheartening is the demise of the trackball, which has given way to the largely useless "trackpad" which every notebook on the market today uses. they're invariably inaccurate, uncomfortable, and cumbersome to use.  congratulations to apple, a deserved win! court rejects $280bn tobacco case  a us government claim accusing the country's biggest tobacco companies of covering up the effects of smoking has been thrown out by an appeal court.  the demand for $280bn (£155bn) - filed by the clinton administration in 1999 - was rejected in a 2-1 decision. the court in washington found that the case could not be brought under federal anti-racketeering laws. among the accused were altria group, rj reynolds tobacco, lorillard tobacco, liggett group and brown and williamson. in its case, the government claimed tobacco firms manipulated nicotine levels to increase addiction, targeted teenagers with multi-billion dollar advertising campaigns, lied about the dangers of smoking and ignored research to the contrary.  prosecutors wanted the cigarette firms to surrender $280bn in profits accumulated over the past 50 years and impose tougher rules on marketing their products. but the court of appeals for the district of columbia ruled that the us government could not sue the firms under legislation drawn up to counteract mafia infiltration of business. the tobacco companies deny that they illegally conspired to promote smoking and defraud the public. they also say they have already met many of the government's demands in a landmark $206bn settlement reached with 46 states in 1998. shares of tobacco companies closed higher after the ruling, with altria rising 5% and reynolds showing gains of 4.5%. uganda bans vagina monologues  uganda's authorities have banned the play the vagina monologues, due to open in the capital, kampala this weekend.  the ugandan media council said the performance would not be put on as it promoted and glorified acts such as lesbianism and homosexuality. it said the production could go ahead if the organisers "expunge all the offending parts". but the organisers of the play say it raises awareness of sexual abuse against women. "the play promotes illegal, unnatural sexual acts, homosexuality and prostitution, it should be and is hereby banned," the council's ruling said.  the show, which has been a controversial sell-out around the world, explores female sexuality and strength through individual women telling their stories through monologues. some parliamentarians and church leaders are also siding with the media council, uganda's new vision newspaper reports. "the play is obscene and pornographic although it was under the guise of women's liberation," mp kefa ssempgani told parliament.  but the work's author, us playwright eve ensler, says it is all about women's empowerment. "there is obviously some fear of the vagina and saying the word vagina," ms ensler told the bbc. "it's not a slang word or dirty word it's a biological, anatomical word." she said the play is being produced and performed by ugandan women and it is not being forced on them. the four ugandan ngos organising the play intended to raise money to campaign to stop violence against women and to raise funds for the war-torn north of the country. "i'm extremely outraged at the hypocrisy," the play's organiser in uganda, sarah mukasa, told the bbc's focus on africa programme. "i'm amazed that this country uganda gives the impression that it is progressive and supports women's rights and the notions of free speech; yet when women want to share their stories the government uses the apparatus of state to shut us up." crucial decision on super-casinos  a decision on whether to allow westminster to legislate on super-casinos is set to be made by the scottish parliament.  the government has plans for up to eight las vegas style resorts in the uk, one of which is likely to be in glasgow. scottish ministers insist they will still have the final say on whether a super-casino will be built in scotland. but opposition parties say that will not happen in practice. the vote is due to be taken on wednesday and is expected to be close.  the scottish executive believes that the legislation should be handled by westminster. the new law will control internet gambling for the first time and is aimed at preventing children from becoming involved. a super-casino in glasgow could be located at ibrox or the scottish exhibition and conference centre. the new gambling bill going through westminster will allow casino complexes to open to the public, have live entertainment and large numbers of fruit machines with unlimited prizes. but the scottish national party and the tories say the issue of super-casinos should be decided in scotland and believe the executive is shirking its responsibility. collins to compete in birmingham  world and commonwealth 100m champion kim collins will compete in the 60m at the norwich union grand prix in birmingham on 18 february.  the st kitts and nevis star joins british olympic relay gold medallists jason gardener and mark lewis-francis. sydney olympic 100m champion and world indoor record holder maurice greene and athens olympic 100m silver medallist francis obikwelu will also take part. collins ran in birmingham at the 2003 world indoor championships. "i'm looking forward to competing against such a strong field," he said. "i got a great reception form the crowd at the nia when i won my 60m world indoor silver medal in 2003 and it will be really exciting to return to this venue." the world champion says he's in good shape but he isn't underestimating the home competition. "jason gardener and mark lewis-francis are olympic gold medallists now and i'm sure they'll be aiming to win in front of their home supporters. "i'm looking forward to competing against britain's best sprinters and i'm sure the 60 metres will be one of the most exciting races of the evening." collins was sixth in the olympic final in athens but is hoping for a better result at the world championships in finland this summer. "this will be a big year for me and i plan to defend my 100m world title in helsinki in august. before then i want to perform well over 60m indoors and start my year in winning form." google's toolbar sparks concern  search engine firm google has released a trial tool which is concerning some net users because it directs people to pre-selected commercial websites.  the autolink feature comes with google's latest toolbar and provides links in a webpage to amazon.com if it finds a book's isbn number on the site. it also links to google's map service, if there is an address, or to car firm carfax, if there is a licence plate. google said the feature, available only in the us, "adds useful links". but some users are concerned that google's dominant position in the search engine market place could mean it would be giving a competitive edge to firms like amazon.  autolink works by creating a link to a website based on information contained in a webpage - even if there is no link specified and whether or not the publisher of the page has given permission.  if a user clicks the autolink feature in the google toolbar then a webpage with a book's unique isbn number would link directly to amazon's website. it could mean online libraries that list isbn book numbers find they are directing users to amazon.com whether they like it or not. websites which have paid for advertising on their pages may also be directing people to rival services. dan gillmor, founder of grassroots media, which supports citizen-based media, said the tool was a "bad idea, and an unfortunate move by a company that is looking to continue its hypergrowth". in a statement google said the feature was still only in beta, ie trial, stage and that the company welcomed feedback from users. it said: "the user can choose never to click on the autolink button, and web pages she views will never be modified. "in addition, the user can choose to disable the autolink feature entirely at any time."  the new tool has been compared to the smart tags feature from microsoft by some users. it was widely criticised by net users and later dropped by microsoft after concerns over trademark use were raised. smart tags allowed microsoft to link any word on a web page to another site chosen by the company. google said none of the companies which received autolinks had paid for the service. some users said autolink would only be fair if websites had to sign up to allow the feature to work on their pages or if they received revenue for any "click through" to a commercial site. cory doctorow, european outreach coordinator for digital civil liberties group electronic fronter foundation, said that google should not be penalised for its market dominance. "of course google should be allowed to direct people to whatever proxies it chooses. "but as an end user i would want to know - 'can i choose to use this service?, 'how much is google being paid?', 'can i substitute my own companies for the ones chosen by google?'." mr doctorow said the only objection would be if users were forced into using autolink or "tricked into using the service". ask jeeves tips online ad revival  ask jeeves has become the third leading online search firm this week to thank a revival in internet advertising for improving fortunes.  the firm's revenue nearly tripled in the fourth quarter of 2004, exceeding $86m (£46m). ask jeeves, once among the best-known names on the web, is now a relatively modest player. its $17m profit for the quarter was dwarfed by the $204m announced by rival google earlier in the week. during the same quarter, yahoo earned $187m, again tipping a resurgence in online advertising.  the trend has taken hold relatively quickly. late last year, marketing company doubleclick, one of the leading providers of online advertising, warned that some or all of its business would have to be put up for sale. but on thursday, it announced that a sharp turnaround had brought about an unexpected increase in profits. neither ask jeeves nor doubleclick thrilled investors with their profit news, however. in both cases, their shares fell by some 4%. analysts attributed the falls to excessive expectations in some quarters, fuelled by the dramatic outperformance of google on tuesday. artists' secret postcards on sale  postcards by artists including damien hirst and tracey emin have sold just hours after the opening of the royal academy of arts annual secrets sale.  the identity of the artist remains unknown until each work is bought and the signature is revealed on the back. "there are still some big names left, such as mario testino," said rca spokeswoman sue bradburn. all postcards are priced at £35. the sale opened at 8am on friday and will close at 6pm on saturday. ms bradburn said there was a big queue at the start of the sale but it had now gone down.  she said the people that had bought the famous name postcards had arrived early and had spent time studying each work. "they would have known what to look for." the exhibition has been open for viewing since 19 november. film director ken loach, fashion designer hussein chalayan and former blur guitarist graham coxon have all designed postcards for the sale. some of the contributing artists are students or recent graduates of the royal college of art and other leading art colleges. money raised from the sale will go towards the rca's fine art student award fund which supports students with grants and bursaries. the famous sale is now in its 11th year. mrs howard gets key election role  michael howard's ex-model wife, sandra, is to play a leading role in the conservative election campaign.  mrs howard will make solo visits to target seats as well as accompanying her husband on his helicopter campaign trail criss-crossing the country. mr howard will host a news conference at the party's london hq every morning, tory co-chairman liam fox said. "we want michael to be as accessible as possible," mr fox said, adding that the party was not afraid of scrutiny.  the tory leader wanted to meet as many ordinary members of the public, mr fox said. tony blair has also said he is intending to get out and talk to as many people as possible during the election campaign. but labour campaign chiefs say there are no plans for mr blair to hold a daily news conference.  mr fox responded by accusing the prime minister of "hiding away from the scrutiny of london's media". the liberal democrats also say they are planning to hold daily news conferences with charles kennedy. on mrs howard's role, mr fox said: "sandra has already been campaigning with michael on a number of visits and has been undertaking short visits herself. "that pattern will continue. it's worked very well up until now." mrs howard made her debut speech at the conservative party conference in bournemouth last october. she used her speech on the fringe to highlight the work of a drugs charity, addaction, which she supports. mrs howard has also appeared along side her husband on tv chat shows. during an interview on itv1's this morning she said she often criticised her husband for not showing the side of him that she knows. radcliffe yet to answer gb call  paula radcliffe has been granted extra time to decide whether to compete in the world cross-country championships.  the 31-year-old is concerned the event, which starts on 19 march in france, could upset her preparations for the london marathon on 17 april. "there is no question that paula would be a huge asset to the gb team," said zara hyde peters of uk athletics. "but she is working out whether she can accommodate the worlds without too much compromise in her marathon training." radcliffe must make a decision by tuesday - the deadline for team nominations. british team member hayley yelling said the team would understand if radcliffe opted out of the event. "it would be fantastic to have paula in the team," said the european cross-country champion. "but you have to remember that athletics is basically an individual sport and anything achieved for the team is a bonus. "she is not messing us around. we all understand the problem." radcliffe was world cross-country champion in 2001 and 2002 but missed last year's event because of injury. in her absence, the gb team won bronze in brussels. uk net users leading tv downloads  british tv viewers lead the trend of illegally downloading us shows from the net, according to research.  new episodes of 24, desperate housewives and six feet under, appear on the web hours after they are shown in the us, said a report. web tracking company envisional said 18% of downloaders were from within the uk and that downloads of tv programmes had increased by 150% in the last year. about 70% were using file-sharing program bittorrent, the firm said. "it's now as easy to download a pirate tv show as it is to programme a vcr," said ben coppin from envisional. a typical episode of 24 was downloaded by about 100,000 people globally, said the report, and an estimated 20,000 of those were from within the uk.  fans of many popular us tv programmes, like 24, usually have to wait weeks or months until the latest series is shown in the uk. but in some cases, said the report, people were able to watch the new episodes in britain before us audiences on the west coast of the country. "missing a television show presents little problem to anyone with a basic knowledge of the internet," explained mr coppin.  "two clicks and your favourite programme is downloading. in effect, the internet is now a global video recorder." exact figures are difficult to pin down, but it is thought that about 80,000 to 100,000 people in the uk download tv programmes. some may just want the odd episode, others are downloading regularly. many broadcast analysts agree that the net is radically altering the way people get content, like tv programmes. this presents a challenge to broadcasters who are concerned that channel schedules may become less important to people. it is also of concern to them because advertisements are usually cut out of the downloaded programmes. the industry has coined the term "time-shifting" to describe this trend of being able to watch what you want, when you want. the increased popularity of personal digital video recorders, tivo-type boxes which automatically record programmes like sky+, have also contributed to the trend. there are also numerous programs available on the net which automatically search and store tv programmes for viewers, effectively creating a personal video recorder on a computer.  within half an hour, recorded episodes can be uploaded - or posted - onto file-sharing networks or other download sites. because they tend to be shorter then full-length films, they can be processed - digitised - quickly. more people with high-speed broadband connections in the uk also means that episodes can be downloaded quickly.  according to jupiter research 40% of homes with broadband say it helps them pick and choose the programmes they want to see or that friends have recommended. the envisional reports said that the tv industry should consider offering a legal way to download shows. the bbc ran a trial of what it calls the interactive media player (imp) last year, which was based on a peer-to-peer distribution model. it let people download programmes it held the rights to up to eight days after they had already aired. it is looking to do a more expansive trial later this year. the bbc already allows radio fans to hear programmes they missed online up to a week after broadcast. about six million people in the uk now have a fast, always-on net connection via cable or phone lines. indonesians face fuel price rise  indonesia's government has confirmed it is considering raising fuel prices by as much as 30%.  millions of indonesians use kerosene for basic cooking, and prices have been heavily subsidised for years. president susilo bambang yudhoyono's government has said it wants to curb fuel subsidies and direct the money into aid programmes for the poor. but critics argue cutting subsidies will hurt the poorer families that his government says it wants to help. millions of people were left homeless in indonesia aceh's region following the earthquake and tsunami disaster in late december.  indonesia pays subsidies to importers in order to stabilise domestic fuel prices, but higher oil prices have forced the government to spend more on holding prices down. it spent 59.2 trillion rupiah ($6.58bn; £3.5bn) on fuel subsidies in 2004, a sum far in excess of its original projection of 14.5 trillion rupiah. since president yudhoyono's government came to power in october, it has indicated its intention of raising domestic fuel prices by cutting subsidies. "the (january to march) quarter of this year is the best time for us to increase fuel prices," said sri mulyani indrawati, state minister for national development planning. "we are still considering if a 30% hike is suitable at the moment. the sooner the better for the state budget." the bbc's correspondent in jakarta, rachel harvey, told world business report that there was likely to be a strong public reaction to any price rise. "the big question is whether they go for one big, short, sharp shock and raise prices between 20% and 30% or whether they try to stagger it," she said. indonesia's previous government, led by president megawati sukarnoputri, also attempted to cut subsidies in 2003, but was forced to back down in the face of public protests. neeson in bid to revive theatre  hollywood film star liam neeson has held a dinner party in new york to promote belfast's lyric theatre.  the ballymena-born actor said that the theatre on ridgeway street was in a "very dilapidated condition". lyric chairman david johnston has said that rebuilding the theatre, at a cost of £8m is the only answer. mr neeson said that the idea was to get a bunch of "healthy, wealthy irish americans" in one room and ask them to help with fundraising.  the oscar-nominated actor, whose films include schindler's list, michael collins and star wars: the phantom menace, said: "the lyric is too important to the cultural and social life of northern ireland for this building to crumble and fall apart. "it gave me a start professionally. mary o'malley, the founder of the theatre, gave me my future. "in those days, in the mid-70s, when i was there, we were doing a play every four weeks. "belfast was not a pretty town to be living in. "there was serious trouble, as you know, but this theatre was like a belisha beacon of light and hope six nights a week, doing everything from shakespeare to yeats to o'casey with a group of actors and actresses that affected me very deeply and still do." the lyric began 50 years ago but the doors opened at its present site on the stranmillis embankment overlooking the river lagan in 1968.  as well as liam neeson, it also launched the careers of adrian dunbar and stephen rea and playwrights such as martin lynch and gary mitchell. speaking to bbc northern ireland before the event at new york's soho house, mr neeson said that his spirit belonged to the glens of antrim. and he said that there was one figure from his childhood that he would love to portray on the big screen - ian paisley. he said that the dup leader and preacher was a "very dynamic, extraordinary figure". neeson used to listen to his sermons on a friday night in ballymena. he said: "what an orator. he was from that old school of bible-thumping righteousness. but it was so dramatic. i found him very powerful. "i'd love to get a chance to play him some time." pm apology over jailings  tony blair has apologised to two families who suffered one of the uk's biggest miscarriages of justice.  the prime minister was commenting on the wrongful jailing of 11 people for ira bomb attacks on pubs in guildford and woolwich in 1974. mr blair said: "i am very sorry that they were subject to such an ordeal and injustice." he made the apology to members of the conlon and maguire families in his private room at westminster. in a statement recorded for television, mr blair said the families deserved "to be completely and publicly exonerated".  the families had hoped the apology would be made during prime minister's questions in the house of commons. however, one of the so-called guildford four, gerry conlon - who was wrongly convicted of planting the bombs - said the families were delighted with the apology. he said mr blair had spoken with "such sincerity", adding: "he went beyond what we thought he would, he took time to listen to everyone. "you could see he was moved by what people were saying. "tony blair has healed rifts, he is helping to heal wounds. it's a day i never thought would come." the move followed a huge campaign in ireland for a public apology after eleven people were wrongly convicted of making and planting the ira bombs which killed seven people. mr blair's official spokesman said no-one present at the meeting would "ever forget the strength of feeling of relief that the prime minister's statement brought to them".  most of those convicted were either members or friends of the two families. all were arrested because of a family connection to gerry conlon. mr conlon's father giuseppe was arrested when travelling to london from belfast to help his son. he died while serving his sentence. also arrested were anne maguire and members of her family. mrs maguire was the relative with whom giuseppe planned to stay in london, as well as two family friends. she said it was a "wonderful feeling" to have had the apology and that a weight had been lifted off her shoulders.  "the people who were still doubting us should now believe that we were totally innocent," she said. they were all jailed for handling explosives, based on scientific evidence which was later entirely discredited. in october 1989 the court of appeal quashed the sentences of the guildford four, and in june 1991 it overturned the sentences on the maguire seven. mr conlon's case was highlighted in the oscar-nominated film in the name of the father, starring daniel day-lewis. edwards tips idowu for euro gold  world outdoor triple jump record holder and bbc pundit jonathan edwards believes phillips idowu can take gold at the european indoor championships.  idowu landed 17.30m at the british trials in sheffield last month to lead the world triple jump rankings. "it's all down to him, but if he jumps as well as he did in sheffield he could win the gold medal," said edwards. "his ability is undoubted but all his best performances seem to happen in domestic meetings."  idowu made his breakthrough five years ago but so far has only a commonwealth silver medal to his name. edwards himself kept idowu off top spot at the manchester games. but he believes the european indoors in madrid represent a chance for the 26-year-old to prove his credentials as britain's top triple jumper. "he has to start producing at international level and here is the beginning," said edwards. "phillips still needs to be much more consistent. i'm sure a victory in madrid will build up his confidence and self-belief that he can be best in the world." the qualifying round of the men's triple jump in madrid takes place on friday with the final scheduled for saturday. olympic champion christian olsson will not be taking part as he is out for the entire indoor season with an ankle injury. ibm puts cash behind linux push  ibm is spending $100m (£52m) over the next three years beefing up its commitment to linux software.  the cash injection will be used to help its customers use linux on every type of device from handheld computers and phones right up to powerful servers. ibm said the money will fund a variety of technical, research and marketing initiatives to boost linux use. ibm said it had taken the step in response to greater customer demand for the open source software.  in 2004 ibm said it had seen double digit growth in the number of customers using linux to help staff work together more closely. the money will be used to help this push towards greater collaboration and will add linux-based elements to ibm's workplace software. workplace is a suite of programs and tools that allow workers to get at core business applications no matter what device they use to connect to corporate networks. one of the main focuses of the initiative will be to make it easier to use linux-based desktop computers and mobile devices with workplace. even before ibm announced this latest spending boost it was one of the biggest advocates of the open source way of working. in 2001 it put $300m into a three-year linux program and has produced linux versions of many of its programs. linux and the open source software movement are based on the premise that developers should be free to tinker with the core components of software programs. they reason that more open scrutiny of software produces better programs and fuels innovation. peugeot deal boosts mitsubishi  struggling japanese car maker mitsubishi motors has struck a deal to supply french car maker peugeot with 30,000 sports utility vehicles (suv).  the two firms signed a memorandum of understanding, and say they expect to seal a final agreement by spring 2005. the alliance comes as a badly-needed boost for loss-making mitsubishi, after several profit warnings and poor sales. the suvs will be built in japan using peugeot's diesel engines and sold mainly in the european market. falling sales have left mitsubishi motors with underused capacity, and the production deal with peugeot gives it a chance to utilise some of it.  in january, mitsubishi motors issued its third profits warning in nine months, and cut its sales forecasts for the year to march 2005. its sales have slid 41% in the past year, catalysed by the revelation that the company had systematically been hiding records of faults and then secretly repairing vehicles. as a result, the japanese car maker has sought a series of financial bailouts. last month it said it was looking for a further 540bn yen ($5.2bn; £2.77bn) in fresh financial backing, half of it from other companies in the mitsubishi group. us-german carmaker daimlerchrylser, a 30% shareholder in mitsubishi motors, decided in april 2004 not to pump in any more money. the deal with peugeot was celebrated by mitsubishi's newly-appointed chief executive takashi nishioka, who took over after three top bosses stood down last month to shoulder responsibility for the firm's troubles. mitsubishi motors has forecast a net loss of 472bn yen in its current financial year to march 2005. last month, it signed a production agreement with japanese rival nissan motor to supply it with 36,000 small cars for sale in japan. it has been making cars for nissan since 2003. levy takes whitbread novel prize  orange prize winner andrea levy has seen her book small island win the whitbread novel of the year award.  she is now favourite to win the overall prize after beating booker winner alan hollinghurst's the line of beauty. geraldine mccaughrean has picked up the children's fiction award for the third time for not the end of the world. all the category winners go through to compete for the whitbread book of the year title, which carries with it a £25,000 prize. a panel of judges including sir trevor mcdonald, actor hugh grant and writer joanne harris will meet up on 25 january to decide the overall winner, with the announcement being made later that evening.  bookmaker william hill has placed london-based levy's novel as the 6/4 favourite to win.  small island, levy's fourth novel, is set in post-war england and centres on a landlady and her lodgers. one is a jamaican who joined british troops to fight hitler but finds life difficult out of uniform when he settles in london. the judges, who included authors jenny colgan and amanda craig, were full of praise for her writing. "what could have been a didactic or preachy prospect turns out to hilarious, moving humane and eye-popping. it's hard to think of anybody not enjoying it," wrote the judges. the first novel section was won by susan fletcher for eve green, beating the favourite jonathan strange and mr norrell by susanna clarke. fletcher has recently graduated from graduated from the university of east anglia creative writing course. waterstone's fiction writer buyer suzie doore said: "it is great to see susan fletcher win in the first novel category. as a relatively unknown author this award will give her exposure to a wider and mass audience that she may not have reached and is a perfect example of the influence of the whitbread. "fresh out of university she is certainly one to watch."  in the biography category it was john guy's the life of mary queen of scots that was picked as winner. the judges called it "an impressive and readable piece of scholarship, which cannot fail but leave the reader moved and intrigued by this most tragic and likeable of queens". guy has published many histories, including tudor england. he is a fellow at clare college, cambridge and became a honorary research professor of the university of st andrews in 2003. michael symmons roberts' fourth collection of poems scooped the poetry award. his works mixes mysticism, erotica and philosophy through life, death and resurrection. as well as writing poetry, symmons roberts also makes documentary films. children's winner mccaughrean, who went into magazine publishing after studying teaching, previously won the whitbread prize in 1987 with a little lower than angels and in 1994 with gold dust. she has previously been the winner of the blue peter book of the year. howard rebuts asylum criticisms  tory leader michael howard has gone on the offensive in response to people questioning how a son of immigrants can propose asylum quotas.  mr howard, whose parents fled the nazi threat to come to the uk, says the claim would mean no-one from an immigrant family could become premier. his comments come in a bbc documentary called 'no more mr nasty'. tv presenter anne robinson said as home secretary he gave the impression he would "like to kick your cat". ms robinson, a friend of the tory leader, also revealed that as a cambridge student mr howard was "much loved by women and he was a courteous and kind and rather dashing lover" - although she denied having personal experience. "i wasn't at cambridge - and it's not personal experience - but i know people who were."  documentary maker michael cockerell was given behind-the-scenes access to mr howard for his film portrait. the tory leader was asked about to respond to people who said that if there had there been a quota on immigration and asylum in the 1930s, his parents might not have been allowed into the country.  he replies: "what is the inference of that? "that if you reach the view that you need to control immigration in the interests of the country you're not allowed to put a view forward if you happen to be descended from immigrants? "that seems to me an absolutely extraordinary proposition? it would certainly mean no one from immigrant parents could be prime minister."  ms robinson, who presents the weakest link tells cockerell that she despaired at his hardline image when he was home secretary in john major's government. "i used to have to sit on my hands because he'd get on television and give a passable impression of someone who'd like to kick your cat or would put your baby in prison if he cried. i mean it was very, very draconian." the film shows mr howard laughing at rory bremner's impression of him as dracula, which he calls "good fun", apart from the serious falsehood of a comment suggesting he wants fewer black people in the uk. the film shows the private side of the tory leader watching television at home or playing table tennis with his wife, ex-model sandra. asked if she enjoys a game of ping pong she confesses: "yeah, it would be more enjoyable if i could win occasionally too, but otherwise it's quite fun."  former downing street communications chief alastair campbell, now working on labour's election campaign, says a "touchy-feely" image does not fit mr howard. he says tony blair was not worried by his opponents' early performance in their commons clashes because mr howard lacked a "big strategy", including on issues like iraq. the tory leader brands such criticisms as "absolutely rubbish", arguing that he has been consistent on his support for the war but critical of mr blair's failure to tell the truth on intelligence. former tory chancellor ken clarke says mr howard has a bigger problem changing perceptions of the tory party than his personal image. mr clarke says the party is improving and it is "conceivable" it could win the next election. but he adds: "it has got to change itself a bit and broaden its appeal."  - michael howard: no more mr nasty is being shown on bbc2 on saturday 12 february at 2005 gmt. kenya lift chepkemei's suspension  kenya's athletics body has reversed a ban on marathon runner susan chepkemei after she made an official apology.  athletics kenya (ak) had suspended the two-time london marathon runner-up for failing to turn up to a cross-country team training camp in embu. "we have withdrawn the ban. chepkemei has given a reason for her absence," said ak chief isaiah kiplagat. "she explained she had a contract with the organisers of the race in puerto rice and we have accepted her apology."  the kenyan coaching team will now decide whether chepkemei can be included in the team for this month's world cross country championships. the 29-year-old would be a strong contender at the event in france and is hopeful she will be granted a place in the 32-strong squad. "i am satisfied that the whole saga has been brought to an end," chepkemei said. "i am ready and prepared to represent my country. "i will be disappointed if i am not given a chance to compete at the world cross country championships." ak had insisted it was making an example of chepkemei by banning her from competition until the end of 2005. but the organisation came under intense international and domestic pressure to reverse its decision. the 29-year-old took part in the 2002 and 2003 london marathons and was edged out by radcliffe in an epic new york marathon contest last year.  the two-time world half-marathon silver medallist will be back to challenge radcliffe at this year's london event in april. ak also dropped its harsh stance on three-time world cross country 4km champion edith masai. masai missed kenya's world cross country trials because of an ankle problem but ak insisted it would take disciplinary action unless she could prove she was really injured. "subject to our doctor's confirmation, we have decided to clear masai," added kiplagat. uk pioneers digital film network  the world's first digital cinema network will be established in the uk over the next 18 months.  the uk film council has awarded a contract worth £11.5m to arts alliance digital cinema (aadc), who will set up the network of up to 250 screens. aadc will oversee the selection of cinemas across the uk which will use the digital equipment. high definition projectors and computer servers will be installed to show mainly british and specialist films. most cinemas currently have mechanical projectors but the new network will see up to 250 screens in up to 150 cinemas fitted with digital projectors capable of displaying high definition images. the new network will double the world's total of digital screens. cinemas will be given the film on a portable hard drive and they will then copy the content to a computer server.  each film is about 100 gigabytes and has been compressed from an original one terabyte-size file. fiona deans, associate director of aadc, said the compression was visually lossless so no picture degradation will occur.  the film will all be encrypted to prevent piracy and each cinema will have an individual key which will unlock the movie. "people will see the picture quality is a bit clearer with no scratches. "the picture will look exactly the same as when the print was first made - there is no degradation in quality over time."  the key benefit of the digital network will be an increase in the distribution and screening of british films, documentaries and foreign language films.  "access to specialised film is currently restricted across the uk," said pete buckingham, head of distribution and exhibition at the uk film council. "although a genuine variety of films is available in central london and a few other metropolitan areas, the choice for many outside these areas remains limited, and the digital screen network will improve access for audiences across the uk," digital prints costs less than a traditional 35mm print - giving distributors more flexibility in how they screen films, said ms deans. "it can cost up to £1,500 to make a copy of a print for specialist films. "in the digital world you can make prints for considerably less than that. "distributors can then send out prints to more cinemas and prints can stay in cinemas for much longer." the uk digital network will be the first to employ 2k projectors - which are capable of showing films at resolutions of 2048 * 1080 pixels. a separate competitive process to determine which cinemas will receive the digital screening technology will conclude in may. the sheer cost of traditional prints means that some cinemas need to show them twice a day in order to recoup costs. "some films need word of mouth and time to build momentum - they don't need to be shown twice a day," explained ms deans. "a cinema will often book a 35mm print in for two weeks - even if the film is a roaring success they cannot hold on to the print because it will have to go to another cinema. "with digital prints, every cinema will have its own copy." telegraph newspapers axe 90 jobs  the daily and sunday telegraph newspapers are axing 90 journalist jobs - 17% of their editorial staff.  the telegraph group says the cuts are needed to fund an £150m investment in new printing facilities. journalists at the firm met on friday afternoon to discuss how to react to the surprise announcement. the cuts come against a background of fierce competition for readers and sluggish advertising revenues amid competition from online advertising. the national union of journalists has called on the management to recall the notice of redundancy by midday on monday or face a strike ballot.  pearson's financial times said last week it was offering voluntary redundancy to about 30 reporters.  the national union of journalists said it stood strongly behind the journalists and did not rule out a strike. "managers have torn up agreed procedures and kicked staff in the teeth by sacking people to pay for printing facilities," said jeremy dear, nuj general secretary. nuj official barry fitzpatrick said the company had ignored the 90-day consultation period required for companies planning more than 10 redundancies. "they have shown a complete disregard for the consultative rights of our members," said mr fitzpatrick, who added that the company now planned to observe the consultation procedures. the two telegraph titles currently employ 521 journalists.  some broadsheet newspapers - especially those which have not moved to a tabloid format - have suffered circulation declines, which are hitting revenues. the telegraph has announced no plans to go tabloid although both the independent and the times have seen circulation rise since shrinking in size.  the guardian is hedging its bets, planning a larger tabloid format like those popular in continental europe. the telegraph group was bought by the barclay twins - frederick and david - last year, having previously been owned by lord conrad black's hollinger international. the brothers are currently mulling the sale of another of their businesses, retailer littlewoods.  telegraph executive murdoch maclennan said the two newspapers would add eight colour pages in the coming months.  "journalists are the lifeblood of any newspaper, and maintaining the quality of the daily telegraph and the sunday telegraph for our readers is vital," he said. "however, action to improve our production capability and secure our titles against the competition is also vital." many newspapers are investing in new printing machinery that enables them to print more colour pages, or in some cases, have colour on every page. they are hoping that by boosting colour it will make their publications more attractive to advertisers and readers alike. in recent months news corp's news international unit, which publishes the sun and the news of the world, the guardian media group, trinity mirror and the daily mail & general trust have all announced substantial investments in new printing plants. adventure tale tops awards  young book fans have voted fergus crane, a story about a boy who is taken on an adventure by a flying horse, the winner of two smarties book prizes.  paul stewart and chris riddell's book came top in the category for six- to eight-year-olds and won the award chosen by after-school club members. sally grindley's spilled water, about a chinese girl sold as a servant, was top in vote of readers aged nine to 11. biscuit bear by mini grey took the top award in the under-five category. winners were voted for by about 6,000 children from a shortlist picked by an adult panel.  the prize, which is celebrating its 20th year, is billed as "the uk's biggest children's book award". fergus crane includes text by stewart and illustrations by riddell, who also created the edge chronicles together. as well as the six to eights prize, it won the 4children special award voted for by after-school club members. julia eccleshare, chair of the adult judging panel, said children's literature had "never looked stronger" in the prize's 20 years. "this award counts because the final choice of winners is made by children, who are the toughest critics of all," she said. "this year's young judges chose the winners from an exceptionally strong and varied shortlist which showcases the very best in children's books today." previous winners have included jk rowling, jacqueline wilson and dick king-smith. blair rejects tory terror offer  tony blair has rejected a conservative compromise offer that could have eased the passage of anti-terror legislation.  the tories wanted a sunset clause inserted in the anti-terrorism bill that would have forced ministers to revisit it in november. mr blair said the bill, which brings in house arrest for terror suspects, had time limiting safeguards already. the tories say they will vote against it unless changes they want are agreed. the lib dems also oppose the plans.  the government has already given way over the role of judges in house arrest cases.  mr blair's refusal to accept the tories' sunset clause proposals means that the government faces concerted opposition from all sides in the lords. peers begin three days of detailed deliberation on the bill on thursday. the bill proposes "control orders", which as well as placing terrorism suspects under house arrest could mean curfews, tagging or bans on telephone and internet use. these would replace current powers to detain foreign terror suspects without trial, which the law lords have ruled against as a breach of human rights.  the tories want judicial oversight of all control orders, not just house arrest. shadow home secretary david davis told bbc radio four's the world at one his primary concern was potential miscarriages of justice. he said if someone was wrongly given a control order it would act as a "recruiting sergeant" for terrorists. he went on to say: "if we don't get the amendments we regard as essential, including the sunset clause, we will vote against the bill." in the commons, mr howard said it would be "far better if the whole of the legislation was subject to a sunset clause so parliament could consider it all in a proper way instead of it being ramrodded through". mr blair said the house arrest powers were already going to be subject to a sunset clause because it was annually renewable.  the second, less stringent, type of control orders would be subject to a court appeal within 14 days and there would be a three-monthly report on their use by "an eminent and independent person". "i believe (the new powers) are a proper balance between the civil liberties of the subject and the necessary national security of this country that i will not put at risk," said mr blair. the lib dems plan to oppose the bill in the lords on thursday. lib dem home affairs spokesman mark oaten said: "there's a lot of talking left. i would be uneasy about supporting a very bad bill even if it was just for eight months." a spokeswoman for human rights watch said it was a "basic principle" that people should only be punished after a fair trial. she added: "having a judge impose those punishments without a trial does not sanitise them either." mcilroy aiming for madrid title  northern ireland man james mcilroy is confident he can win his first major title at this weekend's spar european indoor championships in madrid.  the 28-year-old has been in great form in recent weeks and will go in as one of the 800 metres favourites. "i believe after my wins abroad and in our trial race in sheffield, i can run my race from the front, back or middle," said mcilroy. new coach tony lester has helped get mcilroy's career back on track. the 28-year-old 800 metres runner has not always matched his promise with performances but believes his decision to change coaches and move base will bring the rewards. mcilroy now lives in windsor and feels his career has been transformed by the no-nonsense leadership style of former army sergeant lester. lester is better known for his work with 400m runners roger black and mark richardson in the past but under his guidance mcilroy has secured five wins this indoor season.  mcilroy now claims he is in his best shape since finishing fourth for ireland at the outdoor european championships in 1998. "that was my last decent year," said mcilroy, who temporarily retired last august before returning to the sport under lester's shrewd guidance. "before, every race was like trying to climb mount everest and i now know you can't do it on your own. "trying to succeed saw me sometimes standing half-dead and terrified on the starting line, which became a bit too much." mcilroy, who was compared to the likes of sebastian coe, steve cram and steve ovett in his younger days, is now competing without the benefit of national lottery funding. that situation could change if he maintains his current form and repeats the world-class times he produced in the 800m and 1000m at major races in erfurt and stuttgart earlier this season. russian dmitriy bogdanov won at the same madrid venue last week and then claimed the european championship race would be between himself, dutchman arnoud okken and antonio reina of spain but mcilroy is unfazed.  he admitted: "he looked quite good in his win and fair enough everyone has the right to their own opinion. "i never write myself off and let's face it, i haven't or looked like being beaten this season." and mcilroy, whose time of one minute 46.68seconds in erfurt elevated him to sixth place on the uk all-time list, is also already looking beyond madrid. he said: "i've been much more focused this year about my career and having such a good team around me has been very important. "ultimately of course, this weekend is a means to an end and that is getting prepared for the summer's world championships. "that ambition has meant that i've had only two nights out since last august. the rest of my time has seen me just concentrating on rebuilding my career." eu software patent law faces axe  the european parliament has thrown out a bill that would have allowed software to be patented.  politicians unanimously rejected the bill and now it must go through another round of consultation if it is to have a chance of becoming law. during consultation the software patents bill could be substantially re-drafted or even scrapped. the bill was backed by some hi-tech firms, saying they needed protections it offered to make research worthwhile.  hugo lueders, european director for public policy at comptia, an umbrella organization for technology companies, said only when intellectual property was adequately protected would european inventors prosper. he said the benefits of the bill had been obscured by special interest groups which muddied debate over the rights and wrongs of software patents. other proponents of the bill said it was a good compromise that avoided the excesses of the american system which allows the patenting of business practices as well as software. but opponents of the bill said that it could stifle innovation, be abused by firms keen to protect existing monopolies and could hamper the growth of the open source movement. the proposed law had a troubled passage through the european parliament. its progress was delayed twice when polish meps rejected plans to adopt it. also earlier this month the influential european legal affairs committee (juri) said the law should be re-drafted after it failed to win the support of meps. to become law both the european parliament and a qualified majority of eu states have to approve of the draft wording of the bill. the latest rejection means that now the bill on computer inventions must go back to the eu for re-consideration. air passengers win new eu rights  air passengers who are unable to board their flights because of overbooking, cancellations or flight delays can now demand greater compensation.  new eu rules set compensation at between 250 euros (£173) and 600 euros, depending on the length of the flight. the new rules will apply to all scheduled and charter flights, including budget airlines. airlines have attacked the legislation saying they could be forced to push prices higher to cover the extra cost. the european commission is facing two legal challenges - one from the european low-fare airlines association (elaa) and the other from the international air transport association (iata), which has attacked the package as a "bad piece of legislation". previously, passengers could claim between 150 euros and 300 euros if they had been stopped from boarding.  however, only scheduled flight operators were obliged to offer compensation in cases of overbooking and they did not have to offer compensation for flight cancellations.  the eu decided to increase passenger compensation in a bid to deter airlines from deliberately overbooking flights. overbooking can often lead to 'bumping' - when a passenger is moved to a later flight. when this happens against a passenger's will, airlines will now have to offer compensation. in addition, if a flight is cancelled or delayed for more than two hours through the fault of the airline, all passengers must be paid compensation.  however, airlines do not have to offer compensation if flights are cancelled or delayed due to "extraordinary circumstances". airlines fear that "extraordinary circumstances" may not include bad weather, security alerts or strikes - events which are outside of their control. all eu-based airlines and operators of flights which take off from the eu will have to adhere to the new compensation regime which came into force on thursday. low-cost airlines have criticised the new compensation levels, arguing that the pay-out could be worth more than the ticket. "it's a preposterous piece of legislation, we among all airlines are fighting this," ryanair deputy chief executive michael cawley told radio 4's today programme.  the european regions airline association (eraa) claims that neither airlines nor consumers were consulted over the changes. andy clarke, eraa director of air transport, said that the ec advice misleads customers as it leads them to believe that airlines could be liable for payouts if flights are delayed because of bad weather.  ec spokeswoman marja quillinan-meiland conceded there were "grey areas" but said "these are not as big as the airlines are making out". in cases of dispute, national enforcement bodies would decide whether the passenger had a case, she said. new technology means it is easier for airlines to take off and land in bad weather, she added. the eraa's mr clarke also warned that while airlines would comply with the new rules, the extra costs would be passed onto passengers. "we reckon it's going to cost european air passengers - not the airlines, the airlines have no money, it has to be paid by passengers - 1.5bn euros, that's over £1bn a year loaded onto european passengers," mr clarke said. "that's basically a transfer of money from passengers whose journeys are not disrupted to passengers whose journeys are disrupted."  on wednesday, jacques barrot, vice president of the european commission and also commissioner for transport, said that the changes were necessary. "the boom in air travel needs to be accompanied by proper protection of passengers' right." "this is a concrete example of how the union benefits people's daily lives," he added. the ec has launched an information campaign in airports and travel agencies to inform airline passengers of their new rights. mutant book wins guardian prize  a book about the evolution of mutants and the science of abnormality has won the guardian first book award 2004.  armand marie leroi, a lecturer at london's imperial college, scooped the £10,000 prize for mutants: on the form, varieties and errors of the human body. "it is profoundly cultured and beautifully written in the very best tradition of popular science writing today," said judge claire armistead. the award recognises and rewards new writing across fiction and non-fiction. a panel of literary experts, including novelists hari kunzru and ali smith, director sir richard eyre and comedian alexei sayle chose the winner from a five-strong shortlist.  the shortlist included susanna clarke's jonathan strange and mr norrell, a novel about the magic arts at the turn of the 19th century and the places in between, rory stewart's account of his trek, on foot, across afghanistan. "what we found so impressive about armand marie leroi's book was the scope of its reference, its elegance and its inquisitiveness," said ms armistead, chair of the judges and the guardian literary editor. "while the subject matter of mutants unsettled some involved in the judging process, the overwhelming majority found it fascinating," she added. her words were echoed by iris director sir richard eyre who called marie leroi's work "extraordinarily thought provoking". the award, for first time authors, is open to books from genres including fiction, poetry, biography, memoir, history, politics, science and current affairs. previous winners include white teeth by zadie smith, in 2000, which went on to become a bestseller. talks held on gibraltar's future  two days of talks on the future of gibraltar begin at jack straw's country residence later on wednesday.  officials at the two-day summit at the foreign secretary's official kent house, chevening, will plan a new forum on the rock's future. in october, mr straw and his spanish counterpart miguel moratinos agreed to establish a body that would give gibraltarians a voice in their future. most gibraltarians said in a referendum they wanted to remain british.  gibraltar's chief minister peter caruana will represent the british citizens living on the rock, while britain's europe director dominick chilcott will represent the uk. madrid is being represented by spain's director general for europe, jose maria pons. the initiative follows spain's socialist government's decision to put its long-standing sovereignty ambitions on hold. gibraltarians rejected plans for the rock's sovereignty to be shared between britain and spain in a referendum organised by gibraltar government. uk athletics agrees new kit deal  uk athletics has agreed a new deal with adidas to supply great britain squads of all ages with their kit for the next four years.  the german-based firm kitted out team gb at the 2004 olympics and has deals with 20 other national olympic bodies. uk athletics chief david moorcroft said: "the athens experience can now be extended to more major championships. "in the year ahead these include the european indoor and world outdoor championships. we are delighted." moorcroft added: "it is hugely beneficial to the sport that the adidas commitment will also provide for officials and other personnel at our world-class series of live televised events." this week, uk athletics also agreed a four-year deal with energy drink company, red bull, who will be supplying the product to athletics at major domestic meetings and in high performance centres. xbox power cable 'fire fear'  microsoft has said it will replace more than 14 million power cables for its xbox consoles due to safety concerns.  the company said the move was a "preventative step" after reports of fire hazard problems with the cables. it affects xboxes made before 23 october 2003 for all regions but mainland europe - and consoles in that region made before 13 january 2004. microsoft said it had received 30 reports of minor injury or property damage due to faulty cables. the firm said fewer than one in 10,000 consoles had experienced component failures. the recall affects almost three quarters of all xboxes sold around the world since its launch in 2001.  in a statement, it added: "in almost all instances, any damage caused by these failures was contained within the console itself or limited to the tip of the power cord at the back of the console." but in seven cases, customers reported sustaining a minor burn to their hand. in 23 cases, customers reported smoke damage, or minor damage to a carpet or entertainment centre. "this is a preventative step we're choosing to take despite the rarity of these incidents," said robbie bach, senior vice president, microsoft home and entertainment division. "we regret the inconvenience, but believe offering consumers a free replacement cord is the responsible thing to do." consumers can order a new cable from the xbox website or by telephoning 0800 028 9276 in the uk. microsoft said customers would get replacement cords within two to four weeks from the time of order. it advised users to turn off their xboxes when not in use. a follow-up to xbox is expected to released at the end of this year or the beginning of 2006. china keeps tight rein on credit  china's efforts to stop the economy from overheating by clamping down on credit will continue into 2005, state media report.  the curbs were introduced earlier this year to ward off the risk that rapid expansion might lead to soaring prices. there were also fears that too much stress might be placed on the fragile banking system. growth in china remains at a breakneck 9.1%, and corporate investment is growing at more than 25% a year. the breakneck pace of economic expansion has kept growth above 9% for more than a year. rapid tooling-up of china's manufacturing sector means a massive demand for energy - one of the factors which has kept world oil prices sky-high for most of this year. in theory, the government has a 7% growth target, but continues to insist that the overshoot does not mean a "hard landing" in the shape of an overbalancing economy. a low exchange rate - china's yuan is pegged to a rate of 8.28 to the dollar, which seems to be in relentless decline - means chinese exports are cheap on world markets. china has thus far resisted international pressure to break the link or at least to shift the level of its peg. to some extent, the credit controls do seem to be taking effect. industrial output grew 15.7% in the year to october, down from 23% in february, and inflation slowed to 4.3% - although retail sales are still booming. arthur hailey: king of the bestsellers  novelist arthur hailey, who has died at the age of 84, was known for his bestselling page-turners exploring the inner workings of various industries, from the hotels to high finance.  born in luton, bedfordshire, on 5 april 1920, hailey was the only child of working class parents, they could not afford to keep him in school beyond the age of 14. he served as a pilot with the royal air force during world war ii, flying fighter planes to the middle east. it was an occupation that was later to feature in his authorial debut, the television screenplay flight into danger. hailey emigrated to canada in 1947, where he eventually became a citizen. he wanted to be a writer from an early age, but did not take it up professionally until his mid-thirties, when he was inspired to write his first screenplay while on a return flight to toronto.  "i fell to daydreaming. i visualised the pilots at the controls and wondered what would happen if they both got sick. could i fly the airplane? i was a rusty wartime pilot who hadn't flown for nine years... " hailey later recalled. the canadian broadcasting corporation bought flight into danger for $600 (£318) and it was shown on tv in april 1956. it was later memorably spoofed in the 1980 comedy airplane!, starring leslie nielsen. hailey worked as a screenwriter for a couple of years, before turning to novels. he went on to produce 11 best-selling books, which were published into 38 languages in 40 countries. flight into danger was adapted to become hailey's first novel, runaway zero-eight in 1958. the final diagnosis and in high places followed, both achieving a popular following. but it was not until hotel, in 1965, that hollywood came calling. the hit novel took four years to write, and stayed on national best-seller lists for a full year. it was turned into a movie in 1967 and later adapted into a glossy soap in the 1980s, starring james brolin. airport (1968) arguably remains hailey's best-loved work and prompted the disaster movie genre. the thriller follows events in the sky, and on the ground at a snow-logged airport, when a terrorist boards an airplane with a bomb.  the book was adapted into a hit film in 1970, starring burt lancaster as the harassed aiport manager and dean martin as a womanising pilot, alongside jean seberg and jacqueline bisset. in a testament to the popularity of the fledgling disaster genre - three sequels followed. the writer was known for his painstaking research into the professions around which each novel was centred, drawing his characters "from real life" and taking up to three years to produce each book. "i have never been able to write quickly or easily. i am too self-critical for that. i am never satisfied," he once said. in 1969, he moved to nassau in the bahamas, with his wife sheila. wheels (1971), the moneychangers (1975) and overload (1979) followed. despite a lukewarm response from critics, and few literary accolades, hailey was at the height of his fame in the seventies and continued to attract the attention of hollywood producers. strong medicine, hailey's blockbuster focusing on the pharmaceutical industry, was turned into a film in 1986, starring sam neill, douglas fairbanks jr and a panoply of former soap stars. the 1997 novel detective proved to be hailey's final book, when at the age of 77 he decided to retire. hailey's health began to deteriorate in recent years, twice undergoing heart surgery. he suffered a stroke just two months ago. he died in his sleep on wednesday, after dinner with his wife and two of his six children at his home in new providence island. "he had a wonderful life. his greatest ambition was to see his name on a book and he certainly achieved that," said his wife, sheila. crisis 'ahead in social sciences'  a national body designed to tackle skills shortages in key subjects should be set up, a committee of mps has said.  there was an "absolute crisis" in the recruitment of statisticians and other social science experts, the commons science and technology committee added. "major problems" are expected over the next 10 years as the social science workforce continues to age, it said. the committee was reporting on the work, strategy and spending plans of the economic social research council.  the council aims to promote and support strategic research for social science postgraduates and provide social scientists to meet the needs of the country. it also liaises with the government and industry over their social science needs. in its report on the council's work the committee said: "we are deeply concerned by the skills shortages afflicting, in particular, the qualitative branches of social sciences. this mirrored previous concerns the committee had expressed on shortages in the fields of maths and chemistry, it said. "it is hard to see how significant progress towards rectifying these shortages can be made through the deployment of economic and social research council's limited resources. "if the government is serious about addressing skills shortages in key subjects it needs to find a more effective mechanism to achieve this." a national "strategic capabilities fund" to address shortages in key areas should be set up in response, the committee added. verdict delay for greek sprinters  greek athletics' governing body has postponed by two weeks the judgement on sprinters costas kenteris and katerina thanou for missing doping tests.  the pair are facing lengthy bans for the missed tests, including one on the eve of last year's athens olympics. they were set to learn their fate by the end of february, but late evidence from them has pushed the date back. "a decision is now expected by around mid-march," said one of their lawyers, michalis dimitrakopoulos. kenteris, 31, who won the men's 200m title at the 2000 sydney games and thanou, 30, who won the women's 100m silver medal in sydney, face a maximum two-year ban if found guilty. the athletes, who spectacularly withdrew from the athens olympics, have been suspended by the international association of athletics federations (iaaf) for missing the three tests. the iaaf said the sprinters had failed to provide samples for tests in tel aviv, chicago and athens and ordered greek athletic's governing body, segas, to hold a disciplinary inquiry. the athletes also face a criminal hearing in greece over the missed drugs tests and have been charged with faking a motorcycle accident on the day of the athens test, which led to them spending four days in hospital. following the final hearing in late january, the athletes sounded confident they would be acquitted. "i am confident and optimistic," thanou had said at the time. "we presented new evidence to the committee that they were not aware of." it was not clear what this new evidence was. global blogger action day called  the global web blog community is being called into action to lend support to two imprisoned iranian bloggers.  the month-old committee to protect bloggers' is asking those with blogs to dedicate their sites on 22 february to the "free mojtaba and arash day". arash sigarchi and mojtaba saminejad are both in prison in iran. blogs are free sites through which people publish thoughts and opinions. iranian authorities have been clamping down on prominent sites for some time. "i hope this day will focus people," curt hopkins, director of the committee, told the bbc news website.  the group has a list of actions which it says bloggers can take, including writing to local iranian embassies. the committee has deemed tuesday "free mojtaba and arash day" as part of its first campaign. it is calling on the blogsphere - the name for the worldwide community of bloggers - to do what it can to help raise awareness of the plight of mojtaba and arash as well as other "cyber-dissidents". "if you have a blog, the least you could do is put nothing on that blog except 'free mojtaba and arash day'," said mr hopkins. "that would mean you could see that phrase 7.1 million times. that alone will shine some light on the situation. "if you don't have one, find one dedicated to that - it takes about 30 seconds." technorati, a blog search engine, tracks about six million blogs and says that more than 12,000 are added daily. a blog is created every 5.8 seconds, according to a us research think-tank.  the committee to protect bloggers was started by us blogger curt hopkins and counts fired flight attendant blogger ellen simonetti as a deputy director. she has since started the international bloggers' bill of rights, a global petition to protect bloggers at work. although not the only website committed to human rights issues by any means, it aims to be the hub or organisation, information and support for bloggers in particular and their rights to freedom of speech.  the committee, although only a month old, aims to be the focal point for blogger action on similar issues in the future, and will operate as a non-for-profit organisation. "blogging is in this weird no man's land. people think of it as being one thing or another depending on their point of view," said mr hopkins. "some think of themselves as pundits, kind of like journalists, and some like me have a private blog which is just a publishing platform. "but they do not have a constituency and are out there in the cold."  it is not just human rights issues in countries which have a track record of restricting what is published in the media that is of concern to bloggers. the question of bloggers and what rights they have to say what they want on their sites is a thorny one and has received much press attention recently. high profile cases in which employees have been sacked for what they have said on their personal, and often anonymous blogs, have highlighted the muddy situation that the blogsphere is currently in.  "this is a big messy argument," explained mr hopkins. he added: "it is just such a new way of doing business, there will be clamp downs." but the way these issues get tested is through the courts which, said mr hopkins, "is part of the whole messy conversation." "if you haven't already got bloggers in your company, you will have them tomorrow - and if you don't have a blogger policy now you had better start looking at having one. mr hopkins said that the blogsphere - which is doubling every five months - was powerful because it takes so little time and expertise to create a blog. "everyone does this - mums, radicals, conservatives," he said. many companies offer easy-to-use services to create a blog and publish it in minutes to a global community. "that is the essential difference. what i call 'templating software' gives every single person on earth the chance to have one. "you don't even have to have your own computer." parmalat boasts doubled profits  parmalat, the italian food group at the centre of one of europe's most painful corporate scandals, has reported a doubling in profit.  its pre-tax earnings in the fourth quarter were 77m euros (£53m; $100m), up from 38m in the same period of 2003. less welcome was the news that the firm had been fined 11m euros for having violated takeover rules five years ago. the firm sought bankruptcy protection in december 2003 after disclosing a 4bn-euro hole in its accounts. overall, the company's debt is close to 12bn euros, and is falling only slowly. its brands, well-known in italy and overseas, have continued to perform strongly, however, and have barely lost revenue since the scandal broke.  but a crucial factor for the company's future is the legal unwinding of its intensely complex financial position. on tuesday, the company's administrator, turnaround expert enrico bondi, sued morgan stanley, its former banker, to return 136m euros relating to a 2003 bond deal. that brought to 49 the number of banks that mr bondi has sued, a mass of legal action that could bring in as much as 3bn euros. the company has also sued former auditors and financial advisors for damages. and criminal cases against the company's former management are proceeding separately. spark heads world booker list  dame muriel spark is among three british authors who have made the shortlist for the inaugural international booker prize.  doris lessing and ian mcewan have also been nominated. mcewan and margaret atwood are the only nominees to have previously won the main booker prize. the new £60,000 award is open to writers of all nationalities who write in english or are widely translated. the prize commends an author for their body of work instead of one book.  gabriel garcia marquez, saul bellow, milan kundera and john updike also feature on the 18-strong list of world literary figures.  but other past winners of the regular booker prize, such as salman rushdie, jm coetzee and kazuo ishiguro have failed to make the shortlist. the prize, which will be awarded in london in june, will be given once every two years. it will reward an author - who must be living - for "continued creativity, development and overall contribution to fiction on the world stage". an author can only win once. the international award was started in response to criticisms that the booker prize is only open to british and commonwealth authors.    margaret atwood (canada) saul bellow (canada) gabriel garcia marquez (colombia) gunter grass (germany) ismail kadare (albania) milan kundera (czech republic) stanislaw lem (poland) doris lessing (uk) ian mcewan (uk) naguib mahfouz (egypt) tomas eloy martinez (argentina) kenzaburo oe (japan) cynthia ozick (us) philip roth (us) muriel spark (uk) antonio tabucchi (italy) john updike (us) abraham b yehoshua (israel) tsunami debt deal to be announced  chancellor gordon brown has said he hopes to announce a deal to suspend debt interest repayments by tsunami-hit nations later on friday.  the agreement by the g8 group of wealthy nations would save affected countries £3bn pounds a year, he said. the deal is thought to have been hammered out on thursday night after japan, one of the biggest creditor nations, finally signed up to it. mr brown first proposed the idea earlier this week.  g8 ministers are also believed to have agreed to instruct the world bank and the international monetary fund to complete a country by country analysis of the reconstruction problems faced by all states hit by the disaster. mr brown has been locked in talks with finance ministers of the g8, which britain now chairs. germany also proposed a freeze and canada has begun its own moratorium. the expected deal comes as foreign secretary jack straw said the number of britons dead or missing in the disaster have reached 440. call for kenteris to be cleared  kostas kenteris' lawyer has called for the doping charges against the greek sprinter to be dropped.  gregory ioannidis has submitted new evidence to a greek athletics tribunal which he claims proves the former olympic champion has no case to answer. kenteris and compatriot katerina thanou were given provisional suspensions in december for failing to take drugs tests before the athens olympics. the greek tribunal is expected to give its verdict early next week. kenteris and thanou withdrew from the athens olympics last august after missing drugs tests on the eve of the opening ceremony. they were also alleged to have avoided tests in tel aviv and chicago before the games.  but ioannidis said: "everything overwhelmingly shows that the charges should be dropped." ioannidis also said he has presented evidence that will throw a different light on the events leading up to the pair's sensational withdrawal from the athens games. the lawyer added that he has proof the authorities "knew" kenteris was in germany at the time he was alleged to have missed a test in chicago. nick davies, spokesman for athletics' ruling body the iaaf, which handed out the provisional bans, said: "we can't comment because we were not present at the hearing and don't know what was said behind closed doors. "we expect a verdict from the greek athletics federation before the end of february and will obviously be making a statement then." kenteris won 200m gold at the 2000 sydney olympics, while thanou won silver in the 100m. finding new homes for old phones  re-using old mobile phones is not just good for the environment, it has social benefits too.  research has found that in some developing nations old mobile phones can help close the digital divide. the forum for the future research found that the low cost of these recycled handsets means they can have a very useful second life in poorer nations. but the forum found that more needed to be done to collect old phones rather than let them rot in landfill sites.  the report reveals that approximately 15 million mobile phones go out of use every year in the uk. of the 15 million that are swapped for newer models each year, only 25% get returned to mobile phone firms for recycling or re-use. the slowly growing mass of unrecycled, discarded phones has now reached 90 million handsets, the equivalent of 9,000 tonnes of waste, estimates james goodman, report author and a senior adviser at the forum for the future. "it's quite common for people to have two or three phones just lying around," said mr goodman.  many of these older phones could end up in landfill sites leaking the potentially toxic materials they are made of into the wider world, said mr goodman. far better, he said, to hand the phone back to an operator who can send it overseas where it can enjoy a second lease of life. "we've heard the environmental argument for handing a phone back," said mr goodman, "but there's a strong social argument too." older mobile phones are proving particularly useful in poorer nations where people want to use a mobile and keep in touch with friends and family but do not have the income to buy the most up to date model. the forum for the future report took an in-depth look at romania where reconditioned mobile phones were proving very popular. "it's an interesting country because it has a really crap fixed line network," said mr goodman, "and there's a real desire for people to get mobile phones." but the relatively low wages in romania, which is one of the poorest countries in europe, mean few people can afford a shiny new phone. "the affordability of the handsets is a real barrier to getting one," he said. reconditioned handsets have boosted take-up of mobiles as the report revealed that almost one-third of romanian pre-pay mobile phone users were using reconditioned handsets. the re-used handsets tend to be about one-third of the price of a new handset. georgeta minciu, a romanian part-time cleaner, said: "normally a mobile phone would not be possible on my wages. i am a single parent - keeping in touch with my daughter is important to me." "this is the only way i can afford to have a phone," she said. mr goodman said phone operators and consumers needed to do more to ensure that more of britain's mobile mountain made it overseas. but, he added, those keen to use a mobile will not accept any old handset. "if its more than a few years old people are not going to want it," he said. india's rupee hits five-year high  india's rupee has hit a five-year high after standard & poor's (s&p) raised the country's foreign currency rating.  the rupee climbed to 43.305 per us dollar on thursday, up from a close of 43.41. the currency has gained almost 1% in the past three sessions. s&p, which rates borrowers' creditworthiness, lifted india's rating by one notch to 'bb+'. with indian assets now seen as less of a gamble, more cash is expected to flow into its markets, buoying the rupee.  "the upgrade is positive and basically people will use it as an excuse to come back to india," said bhanu baweja, a strategist at ubs. "money has moved out from india in the first two or three weeks of january into other markets like korea and thailand and this upgrade should lead to a reversal." india's foreign currency rating is now one notch below investment grade, which starts at 'bbb-'. the increase has put it on the same level as romania, egypt and el salvador, and one level below russia. versace art portfolio up for sale  the art collection of murdered fashion designer gianni versace could fetch up to £9m ($17m) when it is auctioned in new york and london later this year.  among the pictures for sale are works by roy lichtenstein, andy warhol and henri matisse. the collection was housed at versace's six-storey new york townhouse. the 51-year-old designer was shot outside his florida home in 1997 by suspected serial killer andrew cunanan, who later killed himself. the auction, at sotheby's, will feature 45 contemporary, impressionist and 19th century paintings. one of the highlights of the sale is roy lichtenstein's blue nude which has been given an estimate of £1.8m ($3.4m).  tobias meyer, sotheby's worldwide head of contemporary art, said: "this collection reflects mr versace's wide-ranging taste and impeccable eye, and many of the works were commissioned directly from the artists. "outstanding later examples from champions of the pop movement, such as roy lichtenstein, are juxtaposed with masterpieces from the most visible artists of the 1980's, including jean-michel basquiat and the collaborative genius of basquiat and warhol, as well as francesco clemente." much of the collection will be offered for sale at three auctions in new york in june, with smaller contemporary paintings going under the hammer in london on 22 and 23 june. a sale of versace's furniture and artworks sold in 2001fetched £5.5m ($10.3m). straw to attend auschwitz service  foreign secretary jack straw will visit auschwitz for the 60th anniversary of the former nazi concentration camp's liberation, it has been announced.  prince edward will also join the uk delegation in poland for national holocaust memorial day on 27 january. between 1.1 and 1.5 million people, mainly jews, were killed at auschwitz. the tories said they were glad mr straw had been "shamed" into going, having earlier criticised the decision to send a lower-ranking official. shadow foreign secretary michael ancram said: "i am glad the foreign secretary has finally been shamed into representing britain at this important act of commemoration. "once again this government has shown crass insensitivity until it has been forced by public opinion into doing what it should have done in the first place."  in britain, the queen and prince philip will lead the nation's commemoration at a service in westminster hall, london. the queen will also host a reception for holocaust survivors at st james's palace. altogether, some six million people, mainly jews, perished in the holocaust. the queen's grandson, prince harry, sparked outrage earlier this week after photographs of him wearing a nazi uniform at a costume party emerged. the prince, 20, apologised, but critics have called for him to go to auschwitz for the commemoration of the soviets' 1945 liberation of the camp. prince harry should see for himself "the results of the hated symbol he so foolishly and brazenly chose to wear", rabbi marvin hier, founder of jewish human rights group the simon wiesenthal center said. merritt close to indoor 400m mark  teenager lashawn merritt ran the third fastest indoor 400m of all time at the fayetteville invitational meeting.  the world junior champion clocked 44.93 seconds to finish well clear of fellow american bershawn jackson in arkansas. only michael johnson has gone quicker, setting the world record of 44.63secs in 1995 and running 44.66secs in 1996. kenyan bernard lagat missed out on the world record by 1.45secs as he ran the third quickest indoor mile ever to beat canada's nate brannen by almost 10secs. the olympic silver medallist's time of three minutes 49.89secs was inferior only to the 1997 world record of moroccan hicham el guerrouj and former world record holder eamonn coghlan of ireland's 3:49.78. lagat was on course to break el guerrouj's record through 1200m but could not maintain the pace over the final 400m. ireland's  continued his excellent form by winning a tight 3,000m in 7:40.53. cragg, who recently defeated olympic 10,000m champion kenenisa bekele in boston, held off bekele's ethiopian colleague markos geneti by only 0.19secs to secure his victory. mark carroll, who will join cragg in the european indoor championships next month, finished a solid third in 7:46.78. olympic 200m gold medallist  of jamaica ran the fastest women's 60m in the world this year as she equalled her personal best of 7.09secs. world indoor 60m hurdles champion  also won, improving his season-leading time to 7.51secs. playstation 3 chip to be unveiled  details of the chip designed to power sony's playstation 3 console will be released in san francisco on monday.  sony, ibm and toshiba, who have been working on the cell processor for three years, will unveil the chip at a technology conference. the chip is reported to be up to 10 times faster than current processors. it is being designed for use in graphics workstations, the new playstation console, and has been described as a supercomputer on a chip. sony has said the cell processor could be used to bridge the gap between movies and video games. special effects and graphics designed for films could be ported for use directly in a video game, sony told an audience at the e3 exhibition in los angeles last year.  cell could also be marketed as an ideal technology for televisions and supercomputers, and everything in between, said kevin krewell, the editor in chief of microprocessor report. the chip will be made of several different processing cores that work on tasks together. the playstation 3 is expected in 2006 but developers are expecting to get prototypes early next year to tune games that will appear on it at launch. details of the chip will be released at the international solid state circuits conference in san francisco. some details have already emerged, however. when put inside powerful computer servers, the cell consortium expects it to be capable of handling 16 trillion floating point operations, or calculations, every second.  the chip has also been refined to be able to handle the detailed graphics common in games and the data demands of films and broadband media. ibm said it would start producing the chip in early 2005 at manufacturing plants in the us. the first machines off the line using the cell processor will be computer workstations and servers. a working version of the ps3 is due to be shown off in may 2005 but a full launch of the next generation console is not expected to start until 2006. "in the future, all forms of digital content will be converged and fused onto the broadband network," said ken kutaragi, chief operating officer of sony, said last year. "current pc architecture is nearing its limits," he added. india widens access to telecoms  india has raised the limit for foreign direct investment in telecoms companies from 49% to 74%.  communications minister dayanidhi maran said that there is a need to fund the fast-growing mobile market. the government hopes to increase the number of mobile users from 95 million to between 200 and 250 million by 2007. "we need at least $20bn (£10.6bn) in investment and part of this has to come as foreign direct investment," said mr maran. the decision to raise the limit for foreign investors faced considerable opposition from the communist parties, which give crucial support to the coalition headed by prime minister manmohan singh. potential foreign investors will however need government approval before they increase their stake beyond 49%, mr maran said. key positions, such as those of chief executive, chief technology officer and chief financial officer are to be held by indians, he added.  analysts and investors have welcomed the government decision. "it is a positive development for carriers and the investment community, looking to take a longer-term view of the huge growth in the indian telecoms market," said gartner's principal analyst kobita desai. "the fdi relaxation coupled with rapid local market growth could really ignite interest in the indian telecommunication industry," added ernst and young's sanjay mehta. investment bank morgan stanley has forecast that india's mobile market is likely to grow by about 40% a year until 2007. the indian mobile market is currently dominated by four companies, bharti televentures which has allied itself with singapore telecom, essar which is linked with hong kong-based hutchison whampoa, the sterling group and the tata group. slater to star in broadway play  actor christian slater is stepping into the role of tom in the broadway revival of the glass menagerie.  slater, 35, is replacing actor dallas roberts in the tennessee williams drama, which opens next month. no reason was given for roberts' departure. the role will be played by understudy joey collins until slater joins the show. slater won rave reviews for his recent performance in one flew over the cuckoo's nest in london's west end.  he has also starred in a number of films, including heathers, robin hood: prince of thieves and more recently churchill: the hollywood years. preview performances of the glass menagerie will begin at new york's ethel barrymore theatre on thursday. philip rinaldi, a spokesman for the show, said the play's 15 march opening date remains unchanged. the revival, directed by david leveaux, will also star jessica lange as the domineering mother, amanda wingfield. drink remark 'acts as diversion'  the first minister's statement that it was okay to get drunk "once in a while" has diverted attention from the real issues, it has been claimed.  jack law, chief executive of alcohol focus scotland, said jack mcconnell's comment was "ill-advised". the media attention had helped to move the focus from scotland's binge drinking problems, mr law said. scotsman journalist hamish macdonell said he believed the bigger picture had been "obscured" by the remark. mr mcconnell was speaking on monday to more than 100 secondary pupils from schools in the highlands about the problems of binge drinking and drink promotions.  the one-sentence comment was immediately criticised by the scottish national party which accused him of encouraging young people to get drunk. but the scottish executive has insisted mr mcconnell was speaking about adults and his comments were "a recognition that people will get drunk". mr macdonell, political editor of the scotsman, said: "i think we have to say right at the outset that this was a very stupid and ill-advised remark by the first minister. "if you come out with something like this, saying that by all means get drunk, then you will be pilloried for it." however, he added that "perhaps mr mcconnell could feel rightly aggrieved about the coverage".  mr macdonell said: "i think the problem here is that he did say a lot more things about binge drinking and under age drinking. "but that whole side of things has been lost in the furore over one sentence. i understand why, but i think there is a much bigger message here that has been obscured." mr law, from voluntary body alcohol focus scotland, believed damage had been done to scotland's fight against binge drinking. he said he accepted that young people drank and they did have problems with drink. mr law added: "i think the remark was ill-advised - but these remarks are blown out of all proportion and they so easily misrepresent what we are trying to do in scotland.  "we don't want to preach to young people, but we need to acknowledge that they do drink problematically. "this diverts us from the real issues which are about promoting responsibility and reducing harm and indeed tackling our drinking culture which is a culture about binge drinking and drunkenness." he said it was vital that young people were properly informed about the risks incurred to themselves and others when they got drunk. mr macdonell said that the first minister should know by now that if he said things which were "off the mark", they were bound to "come back and bite him". he added: "here, mr mcconnell was talking in the highlands to 100 teenagers and every word he said was put out on a webcast by the scottish executive and then looked at by other politicians and reporters. "i think in this instance he has done a lot of really good things and he will be regretting this remark."  the scottish national party's holyrood leader nicola sturgeon wrote to mr mcconnell on tuesday accusing him of an error of judgement and calling for him to apologise for his "ill-judged comment" and withdraw it immediately. in a furious response, the first minister said his comments had been distorted and taken out of context. he told ms sturgeon: "it is disappointing that you have contributed to this distortion by saying it is staggering that i 'should encourage young people to get drunk'. "that is completely untrue. perhaps it would have been wiser for you to find out what was actually said before you rushed to represent my position, undermine the convener of education at highland council and insult the intelligence of the young people i spoke with - all for the sake of a simple soundbite." london hope over chepkemei  london marathon organisers are hoping that banned athlete susan chepkemei will still take part in this year's race on 17 april.  chepkemei was suspended from all competition until the end of the year by athletics kenya after failing to report to a national training camp. "we are watching it closely," said london race director david bedford. "there is a long way to go before the race and we are hoping the situation will be satisfactorily resolved." the camp in embu was to prepare for the iaaf world cross country championships later this month. chepkemei however took part and finished third in last sunday's world best 10k race in puerto rico. the 29-year-old has finished second to paula radcliffe in the 2002 and 2003 london races as well as in november's new york city marathon. intel unveils laser breakthrough  intel has unveiled research that could mean data is soon being moved around chips at the speed of light.  scientists at intel have overcome a fundamental problem that before now has prevented silicon being used to generate and amplify laser light. the breakthrough should make it easier to interconnect data networks with the chips that process the information. the intel researchers said products exploiting the breakthrough should appear by the end of the decade.  "we've overcome a fundamental limit," said dr mario paniccia, director of intel's photonics technology lab. writing in the journal nature, dr paniccia - and colleagues haisheng rong, richard jones, ansheng liu, oded cohen, dani hak and alexander fang - show how they have made a continuous laser from the same material used to make computer processors. currently, says dr paniccia, telecommunications equipment that amplifies the laser light that travels down fibre optic cables is very expensive because of the exotic materials, such as gallium arsenide, used to make it.  telecommunications firms and chip makers would prefer to use silicon for these light-moving elements because it is cheap and many of the problems of using it in high-volume manufacturing have been solved. "we're trying to take our silicon competency in manufacturing and apply it to new areas," said dr paniccia. while work has been done to make some of the components that can move light around, before now silicon has not successfully been used to generate or amplify the laser light pulses used to send data over long distances. this is despite the fact that silicon is a much better amplifier of light pulses than the form of the material used in fibre optic cables. this improved amplification is due to the crystalline structure of the silicon used to make computer chips. dr paniccia said that the structure of silicon meant that when laser light passed through it, some colliding photons rip electrons off the atoms within the material. "it creates a cloud of electrons sitting in the silicon and that absorbs all the light," he said. but the intel researchers have found a way to suck away these errant electrons and turn silicon into a material that can both generate and amplify laser light. even better, the laser light produced in this way can, with the help of easy-to-make filters, be tuned across a very wide range of frequencies. semi-conductor lasers made before now have only produced light in a narrow frequency ranges. the result could be the close integration of the fibre optic cables that carry data as light with the computer chips that process it. dr paniccia said the work was the one of several steps needed if silicon was to be used to make components that could carry and process light in the form of data pulses. "it's a technical validation that it can work," he said. call centre users 'lose patience'  customers trying to get through to call centres are getting impatient and quicker to hang up, a survey suggests.  once past the welcome message, callers on average hang up after just 65 seconds of listening to canned music. the drop in patience comes as the number of calls to call centres is growing at a rate of 20% every year. "customers are getting used to the idea of an 'always available' society," says cara diemont of it firm dimension data, which commissioned the survey. however, call centres also saw a sharp increase of customers simply abandoning calls, she says, from just over 5% in 2003 to a record 13.3% during last year. when automated phone message systems are taken out of the equation, where customers have to pick their way through multiple options and messages, the number of abandoned calls is even higher - a sixth of all callers give up rather than wait. one possible reason for the lack in patience, ms diemont says, is the fact that more customers are calling 'on the move' using their mobile phones.  the surge in customers trying to get through to call centres is also a reflection of the centres' growing range of tasks. "once a call centre may have looked after mortgages, now its agents may also be responsible for credit cards, insurance and current accounts," ms diemont says. problems are occurring because increased responsibility is not going hand-in-hand with more training, the survey found.  in what dimension data calls an "alarming development", the average induction time for a call centre worker fell last year from 36 to just 21 days, leaving "agents not equipped to deal with customers". this, ms diemont warns, is "scary" and not good for the bottom line either. poor training frustrates both call centre workers and customers. as a result, call centres have a high "churn rate", with nearly a quarter of workers throwing in the towel every year, which in turn forces companies to pay for training new staff. resolution rates - the number of calls where a customer's query is resolved to mutual satisfaction - are running at just 50%. when the query is passed on to a second or third person - a specialist or manager - rates rise to about 70%, but that is still well below the industry target of an 85% resolution rate.  suggestions that "outsourcing" - relocating call centres to low-cost countries like india or south africa - is to blame are wrong, ms diemont says.  there are "no big differences in wait time and call resolution" between call centres based in europe or north america and those in developing countries around the world. "you can make call centres perform anywhere if you have good management and the right processes in place," she says. however, companies that decide to "offshore" their operations are driven not just by cost considerations. only 42% of them say that saving money is the main consideration when closing domestic call centre operations. half of them argue that workers in other countries offer better skills for the money. but not everybody believes that outsourcing and offshoring are the solution. nearly two-thirds of all firms polled for the survey have no plans to offshore their call centres. they give three key reasons for not making the move:  - call centre operations are part of their business "core function",   - they are worried about the risk of going abroad,   - they fear that they will damage their brand if they join the offshoring drive. the survey was conducted by sunovate on behalf of dimension data, and is based on in-depth questionnaires of 166 call centres in 24 countries and five continents. what are your experiences with call centres? are you happy to listen to vivaldi or greensleeves, or do you want an immediate response? and if you work in a call centre: did your training prepare you for your job? public show for reynolds portrait  sir joshua reynolds' portrait of omai will get a public airing following fears it would stay hidden because of an export wrangle.  the tate gallery unsuccessfully tried to buy the picture from its anonymous owner after a ban was issued preventing the painting from leaving the uk. the 18th century painting has remained in storage but the owner has agreed to allow it to be part of an exhibition. the exhibition of reynolds' work will be shown at tate britain from may. joshua reynolds: the creation of celebrity will feature prints, caricatures, and sculpture by the 18th century artist, who painted some of the most famous personalities of his day. portrait of omai fetched the second highest amount for a british painting when it was sold at auction for £10.3m in 2001. it was bought by a london dealer who sold it on to a collector. the unnamed collector wanted to take it out of the country, but was barred from doing so by the government because of its historical significance.  in march 2004, the tate managed to raise £12.5m funding to buy the portrait but the owner refused to sell and it has been held in storage since. the portrait is of a young man who was dubbed "the noble savage" when he arrived in london from polynesia. he became a darling of london society and was invited to all the best parties by people who were fascinated by such an exotic character. sir joshua painted him after his arrival in 1774, and it became the artist's most famous work after it was first exhibited at the royal academy in 1776. concerns at school diploma plan  final appeals are being made for the government not to ditch the reform plan for england's secondary schools put forward by the tomlinson report.  the government's response to the plan for a four-tier diploma to replace all existing 14-19 qualifications is expected next week. some are worried it could be scuppered if, as tony blair and ruth kelly have suggested, gcses and a-levels stay. sir mike tomlinson himself was briefed only this week. he is said to be feeling more comfortable about what the government is likely to say than if he had read only what was in newspapers in the earlier part of the week. but the government was said to be still rewriting its response on friday. "it will be a tragedy if the government comes through with a half-hearted response," said the chairman of the commons education select committee, labour mp barry sheerman.  his main concern was the reports that there would be a diploma - but only to replace existing vocational qualifications. "we must tackle head-on the structural mess that is our secondary education system," he wrote in the times educational supplement. "it is not the case that the academic stream in secondary is fine while the vocational route is desperately weak." the qualifications and curriculum authority (qca) has also told the government not to "compromise". the qca said the potential "step-change in participation and attainment" lay in the integrity of the whole diploma. "any partial implementation of the proposals would, in our view, compromise that integrity," said its chairman, sir anthony greener. it is a sign of the qca's concern that its advice went to ministers last december but was publicised only recently. but people understand that a white paper response is government policy and has to command wider ministerial support than if it were coming only from the department for education and skills. they may be content if it does not "close too many doors" in writing - whatever spin is put on it.  the chief inspector of schools, david bell, also said recently that gcses and a-levels should go. "one of the reasons why i'm so strongly in favour of these terms disappearing over time is that it's good for the symbols of change to be seen right across the system," he said. "if we don't say this is a sea-change in education, we will miss a great opportunity." universities and head teachers in both the independent and state sectors have also backed the tomlinson proposals, which include having higher grades at advanced level to differentiate between the brightest students. a note of concern has been expressed repeatedly by the employers' organisation, the cbi, which complains of a lack of skills. in an attempt to address this, the tomlinson plan is for tests in "functional" maths and literacy - decidedly not gcses. it has been suggested the government will take steps of some sort to meet firms' concerns on this score. another dissenter is sir mike tomlinson's predecessor as chief schools inspector, professor chris woodhead, who has said there is no need for such a "massive upheaval". the conservative party has put forward plans to revert to a system of having only the brightest percentage of students each year getting the top a-level grade, no matter how well the others have done. edwards tips idowu for euro gold  world outdoor triple jump record holder and bbc pundit jonathan edwards believes phillips idowu can take gold at the european indoor championships.  idowu landed 17.30m at the british trials in sheffield last month to lead the world triple jump rankings. "it's all down to him, but if he jumps as well as he did in sheffield he could win the gold medal," said edwards. "his ability is undoubted but all his best performances seem to happen in domestic meetings."  idowu made his breakthrough five years ago but so far has only a commonwealth silver medal to his name. edwards himself kept idowu off top spot at the manchester games. but he believes the european indoors in madrid represent a chance for the 26-year-old to prove his credentials as britain's top triple jumper. "he has to start producing at international level and here is the beginning," said edwards. "phillips still needs to be much more consistent. i'm sure a victory in madrid will build up his confidence and self-belief that he can be best in the world." the qualifying round of the men's triple jump in madrid takes place on friday with the final scheduled for saturday. olympic champion christian olsson will not be taking part as he is out for the entire indoor season with an ankle injury. security scares spark browser fix  microsoft is working on a new version of its internet explorer web browser.  the revamp has been prompted by microsoft's growing concern with security as well as increased competition from rival browsers. microsoft said the new version will be far less vulnerable to the bugs that make its current browser a favourite of tech-savvy criminals. test versions of the new program, called ie 7, are due to be released by the summer.  the announcement about internet explorer was made by bill gates, microsoft chairman and chief software architect, during a keynote speech at the rsa security conference currently being held in san francisco. although details were scant, mr gates, said ie7 would include new protections against viruses, spyware and phishing scams. this last category of threats involves criminals setting up spoof websites that look identical to those of banks and try to trick people into handing over login and account information.  in a bid to shore up the poor security in ie 6, microsoft has regularly issued updates to patch loopholes exploited by criminals and the makers of nuisance programs such as spyware. earlier this month it released a security bulletin that patched eight critical security holes - some of which were found in the ie browser. microsoft has also made a series of acquisitions of small firms that specialise in computer security. one of the first fruits of these acquisitions appeared last month with the release of a microsoft anti-spyware program. an own-brand anti-virus program is due to follow by the end of 2005. the decision to make internet explorer 7 is widely seen as a u-turn because, before now, microsoft said it had no need to update the browser. typically new versions of its browser appear with successive versions of the windows operating system. a new version of ie was widely expected to debut with the next version of windows, codenamed longhorn, which is due to appear in 2006. the current version of internet explorer is four years old, and is widely seen as falling behind rivals such as firefox and opera. there are also persistent rumours that search engine google is poised to produce its own brand browser based on firefox. in particular the firefox browser has been winning fans and users since its first full version was released in november 2004. estimates of how many users firefox has won over vary widely. according to market statistics gathered by websidestory, firefox's market share is now about 5% of all users. however, other browser stat gatherers say the figure is closer to 15%. some technical websites report that a majority of their visitors use the firefox browser. internet explorer still dominates with a share of about 90% but this is down from a peak of almost 96% in mid-2004. rank 'set to sell off film unit'  leisure group rank could unveil plans to demerge its film services unit and sell its media business, reports claim.  rank, formerly famous for the carry on series, will expose the shake-up at the announcement of its results on friday, the sunday telegraph reported. advisors goldman sachs are understood to have valued its demerged deluxe film unit at £300m, the report added. speculation of a possible shake-up has mounted since rank announced a study into a possible demerger in september. since mike smith's appointment as chief executive in 1999, the group has focused on fewer businesses and embarked on a major cost-cutting programme which has seen it dispose of a number of businesses, including the odeon cinema chain and the pinewood studios. the move left the group with three core divisions: gaming, hard rock and deluxe films, which provides technical services to hollywood studios.  rank now aims to concentrate on its gaming, bars and hotels business, including extending its hard rock brand to its casinos - trials of which have been a success. it also owns deluxe media, which makes and distributes dvds and videos. however, that business is seen as less successful. last year it made profits of £21.5m on a turnover of £392.1m and experts suggest its success in moving to dvds from vhs video could make it an attractive target for a private equity buyer. a spokesman for the firm refused to comment on the reports, but said any results from the demerger study were likely to be set out when it unveiled its results on friday. analysts predict the firm is likely to report a slight drop in annual pre-tax profits to £170m from £194m last year. formed in the 1940s the firm was a leading uk film producer and cinema owner for many years. it has now diversified into a range of other leisure activities - mainly in the uk - including hotels, roadside service areas and holiday centres. it now owns 34 grosvenor casinos, the mecca bingo chain and more than 100 hard rock cafes in 38 countries. obituary: dame alicia markova  dame alicia markova, who has died in bath aged 94, was the uk's first prima ballerina of the modern age, and, in her heyday, the greatest in the western world.  she was born lilian alicia marks in london in 1910. her parents were comfortably off - her father, a mining engineer, drove a rolls royce. when she was eight, her mother took a decision which changed her life. fearing that she had flat feet and weak legs, she arranged for her to have ballet lessons. very quickly it became apparent that she was something special. she was spotted by the russian artistic impresario, sergei diaghilev, who wanted her to dance for his company, ballets russes. she became ill with diphtheria but kept in touch, and, eventually, with a governess in tow, joined diaghilev in monte carlo when she was 14.  from here, she toured europe, playing in all the top venues. it was diaghilev who changed her name without even consulting her. her life was one of great excitement. people such as matisse and stravinsky became like uncles to her, the latter put in charge of her musical education. soon after diaghilev's death in 1929, alicia markova returned to england and became britain's first international ballerina. she helped launch the ballet club at the mercury theatre (later the ballet rambert), the vic wells ballet, and then, with anton dolin, the markova-dolin ballet of 1935-37. she also began working with young choreographers such as anthony tudor and frederick ashton who became huge influences on the direction of ballet in the west.  her version of giselle, all lightness and grace, is still considered to be among the finest ever. she was also outstanding in the dying swan. she was one of the first british ballerinas to take a major part in les sylphides. she, above all, helped popularise ballet both in britain and in america.  alicia markova spent world war ii in the united states where, in a re-formed ballets russes, she played to huge audiences. she even appeared in hollywood movies. in 1950, back in england, she and anton dolin jointly established the festival ballet. she retired in 1963, an "instant decision" she said, "largely because of a leg injury". created a dame, she made a new career for herself as a teacher. she also travelled the world directing ballet companies and putting on shows. she became director of ballet for the metropolitan opera ballet in new york, and for some years was full-time professor of ballet and performing arts in the university of cincinnati. a critic once said of dame alicia markova's dancing: "she gave the illusion of moving as if she had no weight to get off the ground." blair backs 'pre-election budget'  tony blair has backed chancellor gordon brown's pre-budget report amid opposition claims he was too bullish about the state of the uk economy.  in a speech in edinburgh, the prime minister said thursday's report reinforced stability and opportunity. and that would be central to labour's next election campaign, planning for which was already well advanced. mr brown earlier denied his economic forecasts were too optimistic - but refused to rule out future tax rises.  he told bbc radio 4's today programme: "no politician should make the mistake that john major and his colleagues made in 1992 of saying no matter what the circumstances are, they can make all sorts of guarantees on every individual thing.  "that is not what politicians should do, it would not be responsible to do." mr brown insisted his spending plans were "affordable" and he could afford to be optimistic because britain was now a stable, low-inflation economy and house prices were now stabilising. mr blair praised his chancellor for his role in creating economic stability, which he said was the "cornerstone" of labour's programme.  in a speech at edinburgh's napier university, he said labour would publish over the next few months "a rich agenda for future policy in any possible third term".  "in every area of work there is a detailed plan for the future, much clearer than those in 1997 or 2001. all of it fits together around common themes of opportunity, security and stability for all," mr blair said. in his pre-budget report, mr brown surprised some city experts by forecasting uk growth at between 3% and 3.5% for next year. many believe the figure is more likely to be under 3% - and fear tax rises or spending cuts, saying tax receipts have been overestimated. carl emmerson, from the institute for fiscal studies, told bbc news: "he thinks everything will come out in the wash and it will, in fact, be ok. we're not so sure." david page, of investec securities, said: "his forecast that he will meet the golden rule with a margin of £8bn is way too optimistic. "it's going to take a significant turnaround in the economy to meet these targets."  conservative shadow chancellor oliver letwin said: "i can't find a single economic forecaster from the imf to the institute of fiscal studies who believes anything other than the chancellor has got a black hole in his finances. "in order to deal with that he will have to raise taxes after the next general election." mr letwin accused the chancellor of using "fancy statistics" to hide public service failures. vincent cable, for the liberal democrats, called on mr brown to open up the government's books to the national audit office, to see if he had met his "golden rule". "it is very clear that there are some serious loose ends in government public spending," mr cable told mps. chepkemei hit by big ban  kenya's athletics body has suspended two-time london marathon runner-up susan chepkemei from all competition until the end of the year.  athletics kenya (ak) issued the ban after chepkemei failed to turn up for a cross country training camp in embu. "we have banned her from all local and international competitions," said ak chief isaiah kiplagat. "we shall communicate this decision to the iaaf and all meet directors all over the world." the 29-year-old finished second to paula radcliffe in the 2002 and 2003 london races, and was also edged out in an epic new york marathon contest last year.  but the ban will prevent the two-time world half-marathon silver medallist from challenging radcliffe at this year's london event in april. global sports communications, chepkemei's management company, said she had wanted to run in the world cross country championships in march. but ak maintained it was making an example of chepkemei as a warning to other kenyan athletes. "we are taking this action in order to salvage our pride," said kiplagat. "we have been accused of having no teeth to bite with and that agents are ruling over us." ka has also threatened three-time women's short-course champion edith masai with a similar ban if reports that she feigned injury to avoid running at the cross country world championships are true. masai missed the national trials in early february, but was included in the provisional team on the proviso that she ran in a regional competition. she failed to run in the event, citing a leg injury. britons fed up with net service  a survey conducted by pc pro magazine has revealed that many britons are unhappy with their internet service.  they are fed up with slow speeds, high prices and the level of customer service they receive. 17% of readers have switched suppliers and a further 16% are considering changing in the near future. it is particularly bad news for bt, the uk's biggest internet supplier, with almost three times as many people trying to leave as joining.  a third of the 2,000 broadband users interviewed were fed up with their current providers but this could be just the tip of the iceberg thinks tim danton, editor of pc pro magazine. "we expect these figures to leap in 2005. every month the prices drop, and more and more people are trying to switch," he said. the survey found that bt and tiscali have been actively dissuading customers from leaving by offering them a lower price when they phone up to cancel their subscription. some readers were offered a price drop just 25p more expensive than that offered by an alternative operator, making it hardly worth while swapping.  other found themselves tied into 12-month contracts. broadband has become hugely competitive and providers are desperate to hold on to customers. 12% of those surveyed found themselves unable to swap at all. "we discovered a huge variety of problems, but one of the biggest issues is the current supplier withholding the information that people need to give to their new supplier," said tim danton, editor of pc pro. "this breaks the code of practice, but because that code is voluntary there's nothing we or ofcom can do to help," he said. there is a vast choice of internet service providers in the uk now and an often bewildering array of broadband packages. with prices set to drop even further in coming months mr danton advises everyone to shop around carefully. "if you just stick with your current connection then there's every chance you're being ripped off," he warned. sluggish economy hits german jobs  the number of people out of work in europe's largest economy has risen for the tenth straight month as growth remains stubbornly slow.  german unemployment rose 7,000 in november to 4.464 million people, or 10.8% of the workforce. the seasonally adjusted rise showed a smaller rise than expected, as government measures to encourage job creation began to take effect. but officials said stagnant growth was still stifling the job market. "there are clear signs of a revival in domestic demand," said frank-juergen weise, head of the federal labour agency, in a statement. "but growth of 0.1%... in the third quarter is still insufficient to deliver positive momentum to the labour market." high oil prices and the soaring euro - which damages the competitiveness of exporters - were also having a negative effect, he said. the brunt of the unemployment is still being felt in the eastern part of germany, where the rate is 18.8%.  with unemployment stuck above 4 million for years, the government of chancellor gerhard schroeder has put job creation at the top of the agenda. a controversial package of measures to shake up incentives to get back to work, paid for by cutting some cherished benefits, has sparked anger among some german workers. strikes in a number of industries, notably among the country's iconic carmakers, have demonstrated the displeasure - as well as fears about further job losses as outsourcing takes hold. among the new initiatives are the so-called "one-euro jobs" which top up unemployment benefit. the scheme's formal launch is january, but hirings for these positions are already taking place and affecting the unemployment statistics, economists said. "the deterioration of the labour market does not come as a surprise," said isabelle kronawitter at hypovereinsbank. "job creation measures probably prevented a stronger increase in the seasonally adjusted numbers." fears raised over ballet future  fewer children in the uk are following in the dainty footsteps of dancers like darcey bussell, and carving out potential careers as ballet dancers.  new research from the royal academy of dance (rad) has found fewer children over the age of 10 are attending ballet classes and taking exams in the discipline. the organisation blames the growing popularity of computer games and other changes in lifestyle. and there are fears that if the trend is not reversed, there could be fewer british ballet stars in the future. the rad found that the number of youngsters taking their ballet exams drops by almost 70% after the age of 10 or 11. dance teacher eve trew, who has taught ballet for over 48 years, told bbc news she had seen a "vast" change over the years. she blamed modern lifestyles for the fall in ballet attendance. "i think the children of many years ago did not have as many hobbies," she said. "the trouble now is that they are wide open to computers, gameboys and everything else children have got. "as a result, there is less time being spent on ballet lessons."  hazel gilbert, 23, an information manager from newcastle, gave up ballet at the age of 10 and is typical of the problem. "it's not a very cool thing to do when you go to 'big' school and i think you have to be very focused on ballet to want to carry on doing it," she said. "i used to love it, but after a certain age it becomes much more disciplined and i didn't want that. "i started getting into other things, like swimming and kickboxing, and ballet just wasn't something i wanted to do any more." ms trew, who runs a dance school in gateshead, admitted it would be "very difficult" to reverse the trend and said many young ballet dancers were no longer willing to make the sacrifices to succeed. "you have to be very dedicated and you have to be very disciplined. "it is a career that you have got to really want to do because it is such hard work. "children these days have not got the time to spend perfecting it... that is very sad."  currently, only two out of 16 principal dancers at the royal ballet - darcey bussell and jonathan cope - are british, compared to 16 of the 21 principals in 1985. but a spokesman for the english national ballet told bbc news that although only two out of their 12 principal dancers were british, around a quarter of the company's dancers were from the uk. he said competition at open auditions in london was "fierce" between talented dancers from all over the world. the rad have launched a new competition to try and reverse the decline in british ballet. dame antoinette sibley, president of the rad, launched the fonteyn nureyev young dancers competition earlier this week.  aimed at children aged 10 to 13, it is hoped the contest will help keep british ballet evolving. a spokeswoman for the rad said: "it is our responsibility to re-ignite the passion and nurture young dancers for the long-term future of ballet. "we need to provide them with a framework and a goal to work towards, with constant support and coaching in an environment where they can work with their peers and possibly leading artists and choreographers. "perhaps more importantly provide them with the opportunity to experience 'performance' themselves. "what better way to reignite a passion for ballet than to let them experience the thrill of performance?" nat insurance to rise, say tories  national insurance will be raised if labour wins the next election, tory leader michael howard has claimed.  tony blair has said he does not want higher tax rates for top earners but on wednesday said other tax promises would be left to labour's manifesto. prime minister's questions also saw mr blair predict that new plans would probably cut net immigration. he attacked tory plans to process asylum claims abroad - but mr howard said labour had proposed the idea too.  the commons questions session again saw the leaders of the two biggest parties shape up for the forthcoming election campaign. the tories have promised £4bn in tax cuts but have yet to say where they will fall. mr howard pointed to the institute for fiscal studies' predictions that labour will need to increase taxes to cover an £11bn gap in its spending plans. he accused ministers of wasting money on unsuccessful attempts to curb bad behaviour and truancy in schools and on slow asylum processing. it was no good mr blair claiming tax pledges were being left to the manifesto as he had given one to mps on tuesday about the top rate of income tax, argued mr howard. pointing to national insurance, he added: "everyone knows tax will go up under labour: isn't it now clear which tax it would be?"  mr blair instead hailed labour's achievement in using a strong economy to invest in public services. "when we have money not only going into extra teachers and nurses but equipment in schools and hospitals, that money is not wasted," he said. on the tax questions, he added: "we will make commitments on tax at the time of the manifesto." home secretary charles clarke this week published plans for a new points system for economic migrants, with only high-skilled workers allowed into the uk from outside the european union.  mr blair said abuses would be weeded out and chain migration, where families automatically get the right to settle with immigrant workers, would end. that would probably create a fall in the migrant numbers, he said. the prime minister ridiculed the tory plans for asylum quotas and for processing all asylum claims overseas. he challenged the tories on which country would house their processing centres - what he called a "fantasy island". mr howard read from a letter about the government's own plans at the european council of ministers for processing asylum seekers outside the eu. but mr blair said: "all the other countries could not agree on the way forward, nor could the un." holmes secures comeback victory  britain's kelly holmes marked her first appearance on home soil since winning double olympic gold with 1500m victory at the norwich union international.  holmes hit the front just before the bell in front of a sell-out crowd in glasgow and cruised to victory in a time of four minutes 14.74 seconds. "it was nice to get that out of the way. i was nervous about whether i would actually be able to get round. "i felt good. i just had to relax and use my racing knowledge," said holmes. "it was all about winning in front of my home crowd. the time is irrelevant. "i got round in one piece and didn't disgrace myself. now it's about going forward. "the reception i've had since the olympics has been amazing and that's why i wanted to keep running this year, because i get a buzz from the crowd." holmes ran a tactically perfect race to finish clear of france's hind dehiba and russia's svetlana cherkasova. the olympic 800m and 1500m champion's time was inside the qualifying mark for the european indoor championships in madrid in march. but the 34-year-old would not reveal whether she intended to run or not, having previously indicated she would leave a decision until after the birmingham grand prix on 18 february. sun offers processing by the hour  sun microsystems has launched a pay-as-you-go service which will allow customers requiring huge computing power to rent it by the hour.  sun grid costs users $1 (53p) for an hour's worth of processing and storage power on systems maintained by sun. so-called grid computing is the latest buzz phrase in a company which believes that computing capacity is as important a commodity as hardware and software. sun likened grid computing to the development of electricity.  the system could mature in the same way utilities such as electricity and water have developed, said sun's chief operating officer jonathan schwartz. "why build your own grid when you can use ours for a buck an hour?" he asked in a webcast launching sun's quarterly network computing event in california. the company will have to persuade data centre managers to adopt a new model but it said it already had interest from customers in the oil, gas and financial services industries.  some of them want to book computing capacity of more than 5,000 processors each, sun said. mr schwartz ran a demonstration of the service, showing how data could be processed in a protein folding experiment. hundreds of servers were used simultaneously, working on the problem for a few seconds each.  although it only took a few seconds, the experiment cost $12 (£6.30) because it had used up 12 hour's worth of computing power. the sun grid relies on solaris, the operating system owned by sun. initially it will house the grid in existing premises and will use idle servers to test software before shipping it to customers. it has not said how much the system will cost to develop but it already has a rival in ibm, which argues that its capacity on-demand service is cheaper than that offered by sun. mixed signals from french economy  the french economy picked up speed at the end of 2004, official figures show - but still looks set to have fallen short of the government's hopes.  according to state statistics body insee, growth for the three months to december was a seasonally-adjusted 0.7-0.8%, ahead of the 0.6% forecast. if confirmed, that would be the best quarterly showing since early 2002. it leaves gdp up 2.3% for the full year, but short of the 2.5% which the french government had predicted.  despite the apparent shortfall in annual economic growth, the good quarterly figures - a so-called "flash estimate" - mark a continuing trend of improving indicators for the health of the french economy. the government is reiterating a 2.5% target for 2005, while the european central bank is making positive noises for the 12-nation eurozone as a whole. also on friday, france's industrial output for december was released, showing 0.7% growth. "the numbers are good," said david naude, economist at deutsche bank. "they send a positive signal of a rebound in output... and open the way for a continuation in that trend into the new year." service sector activity improved in january, hitting a seven-month high. but unemployment remains high at about 10%. famed music director viotti dies  conductor marcello viotti, director of venice's famous la fenice theatre, has died in germany at 50.  viotti, director of la fenice since 2002, conducted at renowned opera houses worldwide including milan's la scala and the vienna state opera. his time at la fenice coincided with its reopening in 2003 after it was destroyed by fire in 1996. he fell into a coma after suffering a stroke during rehearsals for jules massenet's manon last week.  he conducted some of the best orchestras in the world including the berlin philharmonic and the english chamber orchestra. viotti was born in switzerland and studied the piano, cello and singing at the lausanne conservatory. his career breakthrough came in 1982 when he won first prize at the gino marinuzzi conducting competition in italy. viotti established himself as chief conductor of the turin opera and went on to become chief conductor of munich's radio orchestra. at la fenice viotti was widely acclaimed for his production of the french composer massenet's thais and some of his other productions included giuseppe verdi's la traviata and richard strauss's ariadne auf naxos.  the last opera he directed at la fenice was massenet's le roi de lahore. viotti's debut at the new york's metropolitan opera came in 2000 with giacomo puccini's madame butterfly, followed by la boheme, la traviata and fromental halevy's la juive. giampaolo vianello, superintendent of the fenice theatre foundation, said: "i am filled with extreme sadness because, other than a great artist, he is missed as a friend - a main character in the latest joyous times, during the rebirth of our theatre." viotti's last public performance was on 5 february when he conducted vincenzo bellini's norma at the vienna state opera. e-university 'disgraceful waste'  a failed government scheme to offer uk university courses online has been branded a "disgraceful waste" by mps.  the e-university was scrapped last year, having attracted only 900 students at a cost of £50m. chief executive john beaumont was paid a bonus of £44,914, despite a failure to bring in private sector backers. the commons education select committee called this "morally indefensible" but the government said the e-university project had "improved understanding".  a department for education and skills spokeswoman said the venture had been "ambitious and ground-breaking, but take-up had not been "sufficient to continue with the project". she added: "uk e-universities was not the only organisation to have lost out on private sector investment in the collapse of the dotcom boom." the select committee found that those responsible for founding the e-university in 2000 had been caught up in the "general atmosphere of enthusiasm" surrounding the internet. initial business plans forecast a quarter of a million students joining within a decade, bringing in at least £110m in profit.  but virtually no market research was carried out and just £4.2m was spent on worldwide sales and marketing of courses. some £14m went on developing the technology to make the e-university work. this was used by just 200 students, the rest preferring to work through existing university websites. with no significant private investors and no direct accountability to a government minister, the e-university had had "too much freedom to spend public money as it wished", the report found. committee chairman barry sheerman said: "uk e-university was a terrible waste of public money. "the senior executives failed to interest any private investors and showed an extraordinary over-confidence in their ability to attract students to the scheme." the report warns that the government should not be scared off investment in innovative but potentially risky schemes by the failure of the e-university, but "should learn the lessons from this disaster". greek pair attend drugs hearing  greek sprinters kostas kenteris and katerina thanou have appeared before an independent tribunal which will decide if their bans should stand.  they were given provisional suspensions by athletics' ruling body the iaaf in december for failing to take drugs tests before the athens olympics. the pair arrived with former coach christos tzekos to give evidence at the hellenic olympic committee's offices. a decision is expected to be announced before the end of february. whatever the ruling, all parties will have the right to appeal to the court of arbitration for sport. yiannis papadoyiannakis, who was head of the greek olympic team at the athens games last year, also testified at the tribunal, along with other greek sports officials and athletes. "i believe the tribunal will reach a decision that will uphold the standing of the institution," said papadoyiannakis. "whatever the athletes have done, we must not forget that they have offered us great moments." kenteris won 200m gold at the 2000 sydney olympics, while thanou won silver in the 100m.  they withdrew from the athens games last august after missing drugs tests on the eve of the opening ceremony. the pair spent four days in a hospital, claiming they had been injured in a motorcycle crash. the five-member tribunal, assembled by the hellenic association of amateur athletics, is also examining allegations that kenteris and thanou avoided tests in tel aviv and chicago before the games. tzekos was also banned for two years by the iaaf. he faces charges of assisting in the use of prohibited substances and tampering with the doping inspection process. all three, who have repeatedly denied the allegations, have also been charged by a greek prosecutor and face trial for doping-related charges. a trial date has not been set. in imposing two-year suspensions on the duo on 22 december, the iaaf described their explanations for missing the tests as "unacceptable". but kenteris' lawyer gregory ioannidis told bbc sport earlier this week he was confident the sprinters would be cleared of the charges of failing to give information on their location and refusing to submit to testing. "we refute both charges as unsubstantiated and illogical," he said. "there have been certain breaches in the correct application of the rules on behalf of the sporting authorities and their officials, and these procedural breaches have also violated my client's rights. "there is also evidence that proves the fact that my client has been persecuted." lasers help bridge network gaps  an indian telecommunications firm has turned to lasers to help it overcome the problems of setting up voice and data networks in the country.  tata teleservices is using the lasers to make the link between customers' offices and its own core network. the laser bridges work across distances up to 4km and can be set up much faster than cable connections. in 12 months the lasers have helped the firm set up networks in more than 700 locations.  "in this particular geography getting permission to dig the ground and lay the pipes is a bit of a task," said mr r. sridharan, vice president of networks at tata. "heavy traffic and the layout under the ground mean that digging is uniquely difficult," he said. in some locations, he said, permission to dig up roads and lay cables was impossible to get. he said it was far easier to secure permission for putting networking hardware on roofs. this has led chennai-based tata to turn to equipment that uses lasers to make the final mile leap between tata's core network and the premises of customers. the lightpointe laser bridges work over distances of up to 4km and are being used to route both voice and data from businesses on to the backbone of the network. the hardware works in pairs and beam data through the air in the form of laser pulses.  the laser bridges can route data at speeds up to 1.25gbps (2,000 times faster than a 512kbps broadband connection) but tata is running its hardware at more modest speeds of 1-2mbps. the lasers are also ideal for india because of its climate. "it's particularly suitable as the rain rate is a little low and it's hardly ever foggy," he said. in places where rain is heavy and fog is common laser links can struggle to maintain good connection speeds. the laser links also take far less time to set up and get working, said mr sridharan. "once we get the other permissions, normal time period for set up is a few hours," he said. by contrast, he said, digging up roads and laying cables can take weeks or months. this speed of set up has helped tata with its aggressive expansion plans. just over 12 months ago the firm had customers in only about 70 towns and cities. but by the end of march the firm hopes to reach more than 1,000. "speed is very important because of the pace of competition," said mr sridharan. us trade gap hits record in 2004  the gap between us exports and imports hit an all-time high of $671.7bn (£484bn) in 2004, latest figures show.  the commerce department said the trade deficit for all of last year was 24.4% above the previous record - 2003's imbalance of $496.5bn. the deficit with china, up 30.5% at $162bn, was the largest ever recorded with a single country. however, on a monthly basis the us trade gap narrowed by 4.9% in december to £56.4bn. the us consumer's appetite for all things from oil to imported cars, and even wine and cheese, reached record levels last year and the figures are likely to spark fresh criticism of president bush's economic policies.  democrats claim the administration has not done enough to clamp down on unfair foreign trade practices. for example, they believe china's currency policy - which us manufacturers claim has undervalued the yuan by as much as 40% - has given china's rapidly expanding economy an unfair advantage against us competitors.  meanwhile, the bush administration argues that the us deficit reflects the fact the america is growing at faster rate than the rest of the world, spurring on more demand for imported goods. some economists say this may allow an upward revision of us economic growth in the fourth quarter. but others point out that the deficit has reached such astronomical proportions that foreigners many choose not to hold as many dollar-denominated assets, which may in turn harm growth. for all of 2004, us exports rose 12.3% to $1.15 trillion, but imports rose even faster by 16.3% to a new record of $1.76 trillion. foreign oil exports surged by 35.7% to a record $180.7bn, reflecting the rally in global oil prices and increasing domestic demand. imports were not affected by the dollar's weakness last year. "we expect the deficit to continue to widen in 2005 even if the dollar gets back to its downward trend," said economist marie-pierre ripert at ixis. paraguay novel wins us book prize  a novel set in 19th century paraguay has won the $10,000 (£5,390) fiction prize at the us national book awards.  lily tuck's the news from paraguay is a fictionalised tale about paraguayan leader francisco solano lopez and his irish mistress. but the annual awards, which were presented in new york on wednesday, were not without controversy. children's author judy blume, who was given an honourary medal, used the ceremony to speak out over censorship.  sales of blume's books have exceeded 75 million, but her work - which features frank narratives about families, religion and sexuality - is closely watched by the censors. blume said: "the urge to ban is contagious. it spreads like wildfire from community to community. please speak out. censors hate publicity." her medal marks the second year in a row the honourary prize went to someone as notable for popular success as literary greatness. last year's honorary winner, stephen king, accused the industry during the 2003 ceremony of snobbery against popular writers. but his argument that the award should help sell books instead of honouring excellence is not shared by everyone.  this year's fiction panel overlooked high-profile works such as philip roth's the plot against america and instead chose five little-known books, all by new york-based women. one fiction judge, stewart o'nan, carried around a note written on a napkin that said: "i would hope that our caring more for the quality of a work than its sales figures make us a friend of books, not an enemy." the national book awards non-fiction prize was awarded to kevin boyle's for arc of justice, which focuses on a black family's fight to live in a white detroit neighbourhood in the 1920s. the award had created a lot of interest this year after the surprise inclusion of the of the 9-11 commission report looking into the events of the 11 september terrorist attacks on the us. pete hautman won the young people's literature prize for his novel godless. the winner in the poetry category was jean valentine for door in the mountain: new and collected poems, 1965-2003. brown visits slum on africa trip  chancellor gordon brown has visited kenya's biggest shantytown as he opened a week-long visit to africa.  mr brown's trip is designed to highlight how the uk wants to make africa's problems a priority of its chairmanship of the g8 this year. he will see an hiv/aids orphanage in tanzania and a women's credit union in mozambique before chairing a meeting of the commission for africa in cape town. at slums in narobi on wednesday, he said education needs had to be tackled.  speaking outside the olympic primary school, mr brown said: "it is simply not acceptable in the modern age for the rest of the world to stand by and have hundreds of millions of children not getting the chance at education." he pointed to international plans to invest $10bn for education in africa over the next decade. the school is on the edge of kibera, where 800,000 live often in huts made of mud, scrap metal and cardboard. mr brown's aides say he wants to find out more about the kenyan government's education policies, which included introducing free primary education in early 2003. the chancellor has already unveiled proposals for a g8 aid package which he has likened to the marshall plan used by the united states to rebuild europe after world war two. the trip follows claims of infighting between mr brown and tony blair detailed in a new book. conservative leader michael howard is expected to seize on those reports at prime minister's questions at 1200 gmt on wednesday. chepkemei joins edinburgh line-up  susan chepkemei has decided she is fit enough to run in next month's great edinburgh international cross country.  the kenyan was initially unsure if she would have recovered from her gruelling tussle with paula radcliffe in the new york marathon in time to compete. but she has declared herself up to the task and joins a field headed by world cross country champion benita johnson. race director matthew turnbull said: "susan will add even more strength in depth to the world-class line up." chepkemei, who won the six kilometre event three years ago when it was staged in newcastle, endured an epic battle with radcliffe in the big apple until the briton outsprinted her in the final 400m. tirunesh dibaba of ethiopia will defend the title she won last year in tyneside - before the race was moved north of the border. recently-crowned european cross country champion briton hayley yelling also competes in edinburgh on 15 january, as does in-form scot kathy butler. game firm holds 'cast' auditions  video game firm bioware is to hold open auditions for people to become cast members for future games.  the company, which makes role playing games such as knights of the old republic and neverwinter nights, is seeking people aged 18 to 99. the canada-based company says it was looking for "a wide variety of people to use as face models for characters". everyone chosen to appear in a video game will receive a performer's fee for the use of their image. the company is inviting people to come along to a shopping mall in west edmonton, alberta, on friday and saturday, bringing along a piece of photo identification.  "there are hundreds and hundreds of characters in a typical bioware game," said shauna perry, bioware's audio and external resources producer. "those people live in any city and village and so we need ordinary people, people with interesting faces." she added: "not everyone is a model in the world so we don't want just models in our games." people chosen to appear in a game will have their head scanned in three dimensions. hundreds of photos of the person's head are taken so that a model of the head can be generated in 3d. "the 3d model will look exactly like the person - it's really quite incredible how detailed they are," said ms perry. she said chosen participants will have no control over how the image is used in a computer game. "we cannot give people any control over how the images are used. "but their face could be used in multiple games - so they could be the hero in one, the villain in another and just a merchant in a third." yukos loses us bankruptcy battle  a judge has dismissed an attempt by russian oil giant yukos to gain bankruptcy protection in the us.  yukos filed for chapter 11 protection in houston in an unsuccessful attempt to halt the auction of its yugansk division by the russian authorities. the court ruling is a blow to efforts to get damages for the sale of yugansk, which yukos claims was illegally sold. separately, former yukos boss mikhail khodorkovsky began testimony on friday in his trial for fraud and tax evasion.  mr khodorkovsky - who has been in jail for more than a year - pleaded not guilty to the charges brought against him and denied involvement in any criminal activities. "i pride myself on heading for 15 years a number of successful companies and helping other enterprises rise from their knees," he told a russian court.  yugansk was auctioned to help pay off $27.5bn (£14.5bn) in unpaid taxes. it was bought for $9.4bn by a previously-unknown group, which was in turn bought up almost immediately by state-controlled oil company rosneft.  texas judge letitia clark said yukos did not have enough of a us presence to establish us jurisdiction. "the vast majority of the business and financial activities of yukos continue to occur in russia," judge clark said in her ruling. "such activities require the continued participation of the russian government." yukos had argued that a us court was entitled to declare it bankrupt before its yugansk unit was sold, since it has local bank accounts and its chief finance officer bruce misamore lives in houston. yukos claimed it sought help in the us because other forums - russian courts and the european court of human rights - were either unfriendly or offered less protection. russia had indicated it would in any case not abide by the rulings of the us courts.  in her ruling, the judge acknowledged that "it appears likely that agencies of the russian government have acted in a manner that would be considered confiscatory under united states law". but she said her role was simply to decide on jurisdiction. the us court's jurisdiction had been challenged by deutsche bank and gazpromneft, a former unit of russian gas monopoly gazprom which is due to merge with rosneft. analysts said the ability of gazprom and rosneft to trade freely overseas had been stifled while the ownership of yugansk remained unclear.  yukos said it would consider its options in light of the ruling. however, it claimed that the court had backed its argument in four out of five key issues. "we believe the merits of our case are strong and simple," said chief executive steven theede. "our assets were illegally seized. we want them back or damages paid." new harry potter tops book chart  harry potter and the half-blood prince has topped amazon's book chart less than 24 hours after its release date - 16 july - was announced.  thousands of customers placed pre-orders on the amazon.co.uk website for the sixth book in the series. rowling revealed she had completed the novel on tuesday, ahead of the scheduled announcement on 25 december. it will be published simultaneously in the uk, the us, canada, australia, new zealand and south africa. jk rowling's fifth book in the wizard series, harry potter and order of the phoenix was amazon's largest pre-ordered item ever, with 420,000 copies pre-ordered prior to its release in june 2003. customers who pre-order harry potter and the half-blood prince avoid standing in long queues at bookshops on the day of the book's release next july. "the fact that the book has already hit number one in our hot 100 books chart shows how incredibly excited customers are about the sixth harry potter," said amazon's robin terrell.  harry potter and the half-blood prince takes up the story of harry potter's sixth year at hogwarts school of witchcraft and wizardry as lord voldemort grows stronger. rowling has already revealed that the half-blood prince is neither harry nor voldemort. and she added that the opening chapter of the book had been brewing in her mind for 13 years. rowling said she had plenty of time while pregnant "to tinker with the manuscript to my satisfaction and i am as happy as i have ever been with the end result". she also previously revealed that a character will be killed in the sixth book, but she has given no hints as to who it might be. following publication of the sixth book, just one novel remains to complete the series. uk 'needs true immigration data'  a former home office minister has called for an independent body to be set up to monitor uk immigration.  barbara roche said an organisation should monitor and publish figures and be independent of government. she said this would counter "so-called independent" groups like migration watch, which she described as an anti-immigration body posing as independent. migration watch says it is not against all immigration and the government already publishes accurate figures. sir andrew green, chairman of the organisation, says there is no need for an independent body because office of national statistics data are accurate. he says he opposes large-scale immigration "both on the grounds of overcrowding and culture".  he said: "for example, over the next 20 years one household in three will be due to immigration. "we are already more overcrowded than india and we are four times more overcrowded than france." ms roche, labour mp for hornsey and wood green, believes legal migration is something we should welcome. she said her proposals mean "we wouldn't have so-called independent experts, like migration watch, who come into this debate from an anti-immigration point of view." she went on: "what i would like to see is there being a body which actually looked at the figures, published them, and was independent of government. "i think that would go a long way to allaying some of the fears that are sometimes whipped up during this debate." el guerrouj targets cross country  double olympic champion hicham el guerrouj is set to make a rare appearance at the world cross country championships in france.  but the moroccan, who has not raced over cross country for 15 years, will not decide until two weeks before the event which starts on 19 march. "if i am to compete in it, it is only if i feel i can win," said the 30-year-old, who is retiring in 2006. "otherwise there is not much point in me going." el guerrouj achieved a lifetime ambition last august when he clinched his first olympic titles over 1500m and 5,000m. but the four-time world 1500m champion is still hungry for more success before calling time on his career. the 30-year-old has set his sights on clinching the world 5,000m crown in helsinki this summer. and he is aiming to break 10,000m olympic champion kenenisa bekele's 5,000m and 10,000m world records.  el guerrouj could meet bekele in march as the ethiopian is the defending world cross country champion over both the long and short courses. but the moroccan will not commit himself to the st galmier event until he assesses how well his winter training is going. "the return to training was very difficult because i accepted a lot of invitations these past few months," said el guerrouj. "i am almost a month behind but i am on the right track."    - britain's paula radcliffe has also not ruled out competing in the world cross country championships. "i haven't quite decided what events i will compete in prior to london but the world cross country is an event which is also special to me and is a definite possibility," said the two-time champion. sony psp console hits us in march  us gamers will be able to buy sony's playstation portable from 24 march, but there is no news of a europe debut.  the handheld console will go on sale for $250 (£132) and the first million sold will come with spider-man 2 on umd, the disc format for the machine. sony has billed the machine as the walkman of the 21st century and has sold more than 800,000 units in japan. the console (12cm by 7.4cm) will play games, movies and music and also offers support for wireless gaming. sony is entering a market which has been dominated by nintendo for many years.  it launched its ds handheld in japan and the us last year and has sold 2.8 million units. sony has said it wanted to launch the psp in europe at roughly the same time as the us, but gamers will now fear that the launch has been put back. nintendo has said it will release the ds in europe from 11 march. "it has gaming at its core, but it's not a gaming device. it's an entertainment device," said kaz hirai, president of sony computer entertainment america. safety alert as gm recalls cars  the world's biggest carmaker general motors (gm) is recalling nearly 200,000 vehicles in the us on safety grounds, according to federal regulators.  the national highway traffic safety administration (nhtsa) said the largest recall involves 155,465 pickups, vans and sports utility vehicles (suvs). this is because of possible malfunctions with the braking systems. the affected vehicles in the product recall are from the 2004 and 2005 model years, gm said. those vehicles with potential faults are the chevrolet avalanche, express, kodiak, silverade and suburban; the gmc savana, sierra and yukon.  the nhtsa said a pressure accumulator in the braking system could crack during normal driving and fragments could injure people if the hood was open. this could allow hydraulic fluid to leak, which could make it harder to brake or steer and could cause a crash, it warned. gm is also recalling 19,924 cadillac xlr coupes, srx suvs and pontiac grand prix sedans from the 2004 model year. this is because the accelerator pedal may not work properly in extremely cold temperatures, requiring more braking. in addition, the car giant is calling back 17,815 buick raniers, chevrolet trailblazers, gmc envoys and isuzu ascenders from the 2005 model years because the windshield is not properly fitted and could fall out in a crash. however, gm stressed that it did not know of any injuries related to the problems. news of the recall follows an announcement last month that gm expects earnings this year be lower than in 2004. the world's biggest car maker is grappling with losses in its european business, weak us sales and now a product recall. in january, gm said higher healthcare costs in north america, and lower profits at its financial services subsidiary would hurt its performance in 2005. uk's national gallery in the pink  the national gallery, home to some of the uk's greatest artworks, has seen a big jump in visitor numbers.  five million visitors made the london gallery - which houses treasures like raphael's madonna of the pinks - the uk's most visited museum in 2004. it recorded a 13.8% rise in numbers and was the country's second most visited tourist attraction, behind blackpool pleasure beach. charles saumarez smith, the gallery's director, said he was "delighted". he said the number of visitors through the doors had boosted figures to pre-11 september 2001 levels. mr saumarez smith added that the pedestrianisation of trafalgar square, where the gallery is located, and strong temporary collections throughout 2004 had led to the strong performance.  "our 2004 exhibition programme of el greco, russian landscape in the age of tolstoy and raphael: from urbino to rome was particularly strong and exceeded all targets," he said. "the exceptional quality of the paintings in our permanent collection is also huge draw for the public. "the expectations of today's visitors are higher than ever and we have kept pace with their demands." mr saumarez smith said he was confident the gallery could maintain the attendance. "with important exhibitions of the work of caravaggio, stubbs and rubens in place for 2005, i am confident that the gallery is set for another highly successful year," he added. the figures were prepared by the association of leading visitor attractions (alva).  it found that the figures had been boosted by an increase in europeans travelling to the uk on budget airlines. popular cultural tourist spots such as the tate modern and the natural history museum all recorded increases of more than 10% in visitor numbers compared with 2003. but for legal or confidentiality reasons some alva members did not submit figures for 2004, including buckingham palace, windsor castle, madame tussauds and alton towers. alva director robin broke said: "visits from western europe were up by 10% and from north america by some 9% compared to 2003, while numbers from the rest of the world rose 20%. "european figures were helped by the rapid growth of low-cost flights to britain from europe, especially from new eu countries." blair sets date for africa report  the commission for africa's report will be released on 11 march - comic relief day, tony blair has said.  july's g8 summit in gleneagles in perthshire - chaired by the prime minister - will use the report as the basis for talks on africa. the announcement followed the final meeting of the commission - which includes singer bob geldof - in london. as well as more aid, fairer trade and less debt, the commission is likely to demand action on corruption in africa. mr blair told a news conference: "it will be a report that's brutally frank about the reality, but i hope idealistic about what can be done if the will is there. "it's an ambitious project we have set ourselves and you will have to judge on its outcome when we publish it."  mr blair has vowed to put africa at the top of his agenda during his time at the helm of the g8. he acknowledged he would have a "a job of persuading to do" on other nations to get the necessary commitment to debt relief. bob geldof, in characteristically blunt style, promised that the commission would not just be a talking shop but would deliver radical new thinking to change direction for africa. the former rock star's presence on the commission has been interpreted as a sign that it will be uncompromising in its demands. the people involved include two african government leaders and a range of other african politicians, as well as experts from some other developed countries. collins appeals against drugs ban  sprinter michelle collins has lodged an appeal against her eight-year doping ban with the north american court of arbitration for sport (cas).  the 33-year-old received the ban last month as a result of her connection to the federal inquiry into the balco doping scandal. she is the first athlete to be banned without a positive drugs test or an admission of drugs use. cas has said that a ruling is normally given within four months of an appeal. collins was suspended by the us anti-doping agency based on patterns observed in her blood and urine tests as well as evidence in the balco investigation. as well as being hit with the ban, collins was stripped of her 2003 world and us indoor 200m titles. the san francisco-based balco laboratory is at the centre of the scandal which has rocked the sport. the company has been accused of distributing illegal performance-enhancing drugs to elite athletes. warnings about junk mail deluge  the amount of spam circulating online could be about to undergo a massive increase, say experts.  anti-spam group spamhaus is warning about a novel virus which hides the origins of junk mail. the program makes spam look like it is being sent by legitimate mail servers making it hard to spot and filter out. spamhaus said that if the problem went unchecked real e-mail messages could get drowned by the sheer amount of junk being sent.  before now many spammers have recruited home pcs to act as anonymous e-mail relays in an attempt to hide the origins of their junk mail. the pcs are recruited using viruses and worms that compromise machines via known vulnerabilities or by tricking people into opening an attachment infected with the malicious program. once compromised the machines start to pump out junk mail on behalf of spammers. spamhaus helps to block junk messages from these machines by collecting and circulating blacklists of net addresses known to harbour infected machines. but the novel worm spotted recently by spamhaus routes junk via the mail servers of the net service firm that infected machines used to get online in the first place. in this way the junk mail gets a net address that looks legitimate. as blocking all mail from net firms just to catch the spam is impractical, spamhaus is worried that the technique will give junk mailers the ability to spam with little fear of being spotted and stopped. steve linford, director of spamhaus, predicted that if a lot of spammers exploit this technique it could trigger the failure of the net's e-mail sending infrastructure. david stanley, uk managing director of filtering firm ciphertrust, said the new technique was the next logical step for spammers. "they are adding to their armoury," he said. the amount of spam in circulation was still growing, said mr stanley, but he did not think that the appearance of this trick would mean e-mail meltdown. but kevin hogan, senior manager at symantec security response, said such warnings were premature. "if something like this mean the end of e-mail then e-mail would have stopped two-three years ago," said mr hogan. while the technique of routing mail via mail servers of net service firms might cause problems for those that use blacklists and block lists it did not mean that other techniques for stopping spam lost their efficacy too. mr hogan said 90% of the junk mail filtered by symantec subsidiary brightmail was spotted using techniques that did not rely on looking at net addresses. for instance, said mr hogan, filtering out e-mail messages that contain a web link can stop about 75% of spam. steel firm 'to cut' 45,000 jobs  mittal steel, one of the world's largest steel producers, could cut up to 45,000 jobs over the next five years, its chief executive has said.  the netherlands-based company is due to complete its $4.5bn acquisition of us firm isg next month, making it one of the largest global firms of its kind. however, lakshmi mittal has told investors the combined company will have to shed thousands of jobs. the indian-born magnate did not say where the job losses would fall.  mr mittal told us investors that once the acquisition of international steel group was completed, the company would aim to reduce its workforce by between 7,000 and 8,000 annually. this could see its workforce trimmed from 155,000 to 110,000 staff by 2010. "we are investing in modernisation so employees will go down," mr mittal told the conference in chicago.  mittal steel was formed last year when mr mittal's lnm holdings merged with dutch firm ispat. a combination of mittal steel and isg would have annual sales of $32bn (£16.7bn; 24.1bn euros) and a production capacity of 70 million tonnes.  a mittal steel spokeman said that no decisions on job cuts have been made yet. "we are trying to create a sustainable steel industry and if we want to do that, we have to invest in new technology," a spokesman said. mittal steel has operations in 14 countries. many of its businesses - particularly those in eastern europe - were previously state owned and have huge workforces. it employs 50,000 staff in kazakhstan alone, and has large operations in romania, the czech republic, south africa and the united states. lit idol begins search for author  the second pop idol-style search for literary talent has begun with the help of the brother of simon cowell.  writer tony cowell is among the judges who will hear aspiring writers read their work aloud. the winner gets a deal with literary agency curtis brown. "i'm not going to be the mr nasty of books," said cowell, 54, in reference to his brother's caustic remarks on tv shows pop idol and the x-factor. the 2004 winner, paul cavanagh, went on to sign a deal with harper collins.  this year, the competition is specifically looking for a crime writer. writers must submit up to 10,000 words from the opening chapters of their novels and a synopsis. professional readers will choose a shortlist of five following the competition closing date on 14 january.  the final five will then have to read their work in front of judging panel. a public vote will also take place, which will account for 25% of the final decision. the winner will be announced at the london book fair on 14 march next year and could be screened on tv. "it's very, very hard to find an agent and extremely difficult, without an agent, to get a publisher to look at your work," said cowell. "people do fall by the wayside and the more avenues we can provide for aspiring authors, the better," he added. paul cavanagh, a former university professor and health care consultant from ontario in canada, was one of 1,466 aspiring novelists to enter the first contest. he lifted the inaugural lit idol prize after reading aloud an excerpt of his work northwest passage. three film studios are said to be interested in buying film rights for the book, even though it is not finished yet. butler launches attack on blair  former civil service chief lord butler has criticised the way tony blair's government operates, accusing it of being obsessed with headlines.  he also attacked the way the iraq war was "sold" to the public, with important warnings on the strength of the intelligence left out. tory leader michael howard said lord butler had given the "most damaging testimony" he could remember. but downing street said mr blair should be judged by results not his style.  lord butler said mr blair bypassed the cabinet and relied instead on small, informal groups of advisers to help him make decisions. the prime minister's official spokesman said the cabinet was still used to achieve a consensus on important issues. but he added: "you cannot, in a modern government, take every decision in cabinet. it's just not possible."  lord butler said the government had too much freedom to "bring in bad bills" and "to do whatever it likes" and it relied too much on the advice of political appointees. the former cabinet secretary said in an interview with the spectator magazine: "i would be critical of the present government in that there is too much emphasis on selling, there is too much central control and there is too little of what i would describe as reasoned deliberation which brings in all the arguments." mr howard described lord butler's intervention as "very important". "this is from someone who was an insider at the very heart of the blair government. "it is certainly the most damaging testimony i can ever remember from someone in such an eminent position."  lord butler's report earlier this year into iraq intelligence said the government's september 2002 weapons dossier did not make clear intelligence about claims that saddam hussein had stockpiles of chemical and biological weapons was "very thin". the reason for this is that it would have weakened ministers' case for war, lord butler said in his spectator interview, which was conducted by the magazine's editor, conservative mp boris johnson. he said: "when civil servants give material to ministers, they say these are the conclusions we've drawn, but we've got to tell you the evidence we've got is pretty thin. "similarly, if you are giving something to the united nations and the country you should warn them."  asked why he thought the warnings were not there lord butler said: "one has got to remember what the purpose of the dossier was. the purpose of the dossier was to persuade the british why the government thought iraq was a very serious threat."  when asked whether he thought the country was well-governed on the whole, he replied: "well. i think we are a country where we suffer very badly from parliament not having sufficient control over the executive, and that is a very grave flaw. "we should be breaking away from the party whip. the executive is much too free to bring in a huge number of extremely bad bills, a huge amount of regulation and to do whatever it likes - and whatever it likes is what will get the best headlines tomorrow. "all that is part of what is bad government in this country." lord butler's assessment was backed by his predecessor as cabinet secretary, lord armstrong. lord armstrong told bbc two's newsnight: "i agree ... there doesn't appear to be the sort of informed collective political judgement brought to bear on decision-making that those affected by decisions are entitled to expect." liberal democrat deputy leader menzies campbell said he thought lord butler's comments were "well justified" and mr blair's style of leadership was "corrosive of the whole system of government". but labour former minister jack cunningham accused lord butler of basing his comments on the first eight months of the incoming labour administration, when he was cabinet secretary. mr cunningham told bbc radio 4's today programme: "taken together, robin butler's comments are partial, inaccurate and cannot be taken as anything other than politically biased against the labour government." holmes feted with further honour  double olympic champion kelly holmes has been voted european athletics (eaa) woman athlete of 2004 in the governing body's annual poll.  the briton, made a dame in the new year honours list for taking 800m and 1,500m gold, won vital votes from the public, press and eaa member federations. she is only the second british woman to land the title after- sally gunnell won for her world 400m hurdles win in 1993. swedish triple jumper christian olsson was voted male athlete of the year. the accolade is the latest in a long list of awards that holmes has received since her success in athens. in addition to becoming a dame, she was also named the bbc sports personality of the year in december. her gutsy victory in the 800m also earned her the international association of athletics federations' award for the best women's performance in the world for 2004. and she scooped two awards at the british athletics writers' association annual dinner in october. warning over tsunami aid website  net users are being told to avoid a scam website that claims to collect cash on behalf of tsunami victims.  the site looks plausible because it uses an old version of the official disasters emergency committee webpage. however, dec has no connection with the fake site and says it has contacted the police about it. the site is just the latest in a long list of scams that try to cash in on the goodwill generated by the tsunami disaster.  the link to the website is contained in a spam e-mail that is currently circulating. the message's subject line reads "urgent tsunami earthquake appeal" and its text bears all the poor grammar and bad spelling that characterises many other phishing attempts. the web address of the fake site is decuk.org which could be close enough to the official www.dec.org.uk address to confuse some people keen to donate. patricia sanders, spokeswoman for the disaster emergency committee said it was aware of the site and had contacted the computer crime unit at scotland yard to help get it shut down. she said the spam e-mails directing people to the site started circulating two days ago shortly after the domain name of the site was registered. it is thought that the fake site is being run from romania. ms sanders said dec had contacted us net registrars who handle domain ownership and the net hosting firm that is keeping the site on the web.  dec was going to push for all cash donated via the site to be handed over to the official organisation. bt and dec's hosting company were also making efforts to get the site shut down, she said.  ms sanders said sending out spam e-mail to solicit donations was not dec's style and that it would never canvass support in this way. she said that dec hoped to get the fake site shut down as soon as possible. all attempts by the bbc news website to contact the people behind the site have failed. none of the e-mail addresses supplied on the site work and the real owner of the domain is obscured in publicly available net records. this is not the first attempt to cash in on the outpouring of goodwill that has accompanied appeals for tsunami aid. one e-mail sent out in early january came from someone who claimed that he had lost his parents in the disaster and was asking for help moving an inheritance from a bank account in the netherlands. the con was very similar to the familiar nigerian forward fee fraud e-mails that milk money out of people by promising them a cut of a much larger cash pile. other scam e-mails included a link to a website that supposedly let people donate money but instead loaded spyware on their computers that grabbed confidential information. in a monthly report anti-virus firm sophos said that two e-mail messages about the tsunami made it to the top 10 hoax list during january. another tsunami-related e-mail is also circulating that carries the zar worm which tries to spread via the familiar route of microsoft's outlook e-mail program. anyone opening the attachment of the mail will have their contact list plundered by the worm keen to find new addresses to send itself to. strong demand triggers oil rally  crude oil prices surged back above the $47 a barrel mark on thursday after an energy market watchdog raised its forecasts for global demand.  the international energy agency (iea) warned demand for opec's crude in the first quarter would outstrip supply. the iea raised its estimate of 2005 oil demand growth by 80,000 barrels a day to 84 million barrels a day. us light crude rose $1.64 to $47.10, while brent crude in london gained $1.32 to $44.45.  the paris-based iea watchdog, which advises industrialized nations on energy policy, said the upward revision was due to stronger demand from china and other asian countries. the fresh rally in crude prices followed gains on wednesday which were triggered by large falls in us crude supplies following a cold spell in north america in january. the us department of energy reported that crude stockpiles had fallen 1m barrels to 294.3m. on top of that, ongoing problems for beleaguered russian oil giant yukos have also prompted the iea to revise its output estimates from russia - a major non-opec supplier. "i think that prices are now beginning to set a new range and it looks like the $40 to $50 level," said energy analyst orin middleton of barclays capital. potter director signs warner deal  harry potter director alfonso cuaron has signed a three-year deal with hollywood studio warner brothers, according to variety trade magazine.  the mexican film-maker, who directed harry potter and the prisoner of azkaban, will produce mainstream movies and smaller spanish-language films. "we had a wonderful experience with alfonso on harry potter," warner producer jeff robinov told variety. cuaron's other films include mexican movie y tu mama tambien.  the 2001 rites-of-passage drama about two teenage boys who embark on a relationship with an older woman, brought cuaron international attention - and box office glory.  it also won him and his brother carlos, with whom he co-wrote the screenplay, an oscar nomination for best original screenplay. warner will distribute cuaron's films in several languages outside the us. "this deal will give us the opportunity to collaborate with alfonso on movies that make the most of his artistry and vision, and continue to offer him the mainstream worldwide audiences that our studio provides so successfully," said mr robinov.  his first film for warner brothers was 1995's family fantasy movie a little princess. based on the novel by frances hodgson burnett, a little princess tells the story of a young girl who is sent to live in a new york boarding school when her widowed father enlists for war. after the erotic nature of y tu mama tambien, cuaron was a surprise choice to direct the third harry potter film but his dark interpretation was received well by the public and critics alike. lib dems demand new inquiry  a judge should look into the david blunkett controversy as key questions remain unanswered, the lib dems say.  sir alan budd's inquiry linked the ex-home secretary to the speeding up of a visa claim by his ex-lover's nanny. but he could not say whether mr blunkett had treated the nanny as a special case or had used her as an example of immigration problems. lib dem spokesman mark oaten said the number of officials who had forgotten what happened was worrying. he told bbc news: "i'm extremely concerned that 20 individuals appear to have forgotten what happened or more suspiciously are not prepared to say what happened. "that must be bad for government, it must be bad for public confidence in the system."  mr oaten said people would be mystified why sir alan's inquiry failed to uncover why processing of the visa application was speeded up. he said: "there is a strong case for a judge-led judicial review of this because, of course, next time it happens it may not be about a nanny and their visa. it may be about something even more important than that. "so we do need to understand what took place and who was involved." the tories criticised the lib dem stance, saying mr oaten had initially said he accepted mr blunkett's word unless further evidence emerged. but lib dem officials say mr oaten was speaking when an inquiry was under way and was avoiding rushing to judgement. campbell to extend sprint career  darren campbell has set his sights on running quicker than ever after deciding not to retire from sprinting.  campbell, who won olympic 4x100m relay gold, had been unsure about his future. but he told five live's sportsweek: "i had to get back into training before i could decide because if i didn't have the same hunger i'd have to walk away. "i've started back and i'm thoroughly enjoying it. i'm looking forward to it. i've got to run under 10 seconds (for 100m) and under 20 seconds (for 200m)." campbell was part of the british quartet who shocked the americans to win relay gold in athens in august.  the newport-based athlete and team-mates jason gardener, marlon devonish and mark lewis-francis were rewarded with mbes in the new year honours list. campbell's relay triumph made up for his disappointing displays in the individual 100m and 200m events in athens, when he failed to reach the finals. the 31-year-old, who won olympic 200m silver in sydney in 2000, said during the games that a hamstring injury had stopped him from running at his best.  he was criticised at the time by former olympic champion michael johnson, who cast doubt on campbell's injury claims. "to go to athens and finally get the gold i've been trying to get for 24 years was a big relief," said campbell. "it was a chance for me to prove that if i'd been fit i would have been challenging for the (individual) medals. "every season i go and challenge for the medals so why would last season have been any different? "it's just unfortunate that i picked up that injury just before the olympics." campbell set his 100m personal best of 10.04secs when he won the european title in budapest in 1998. and he ran 20.13secs in the quarter-finals of the 200m in sydney on the way to olympic silver. piero gives rugby perspective  bbc sport unveils its new analysis tool piero at the wales v england rugby union match on saturday. but what does it do and how does it work?  picture the scene - wales are camped on the england line in the dying seconds of the six nations' opening match. a ball is flung out to winger shane williams who crosses to score the winning try for wales. but the england players are incensed - arguing that the pass was forward and the try should not stand. in the past, sports fans would be left debating the validity of the try for days and weeks to come. but bbc sport's new tool piero could end discussions in minutes.  piero, named after the italian painter and pioneer of perspective piero della francesco, creates a virtual stadium in which virtual players can be tracked from almost any angle. viewers will be able to see precisely how the ball was thrown and by whom, giving a greater depth to the growing wealth of analysis available during sports broadcasts. the technology has been created by bbc research and development for bbc broadcast and bbc outside broadcasts. bbc sport is the first client to start using the system. "in order to keep audiences growing and growing... we need to work closely with people who create technology and innovation to bring sport to life," said andrew thompson, the bbc's head of development, new media and sports news. "we want to appeal to core fans - to give them more analysis, more detail, more definitive answers about key passages of play." piero works by taking telemetric data from fixed camera positions and sending that data inside the video signal to a pc which can then render the information into 3d graphics.  the more cameras using piero, the better the detail possible out the other end when the data is turned into 3d models. "it allows us to tell the story of a passage of play, tracking individual players across the field, looking at tactics," said andy townsend, from bbc broadcast.  an operator can manipulate the information and provide almost real-time replays of incidents, as well as more in-depth analysis. the "virtual camera" can focus on virtually any aspect of the pitch, giving viewers an insight into action that the camera normally cannot see. piero also provides a wealth of statistical detail - from the length of kicks, to the length of a run of an individual player and the height of a lift at any lineout. mr townsend said sports performance companies were already showing an interest in the technology. bbc broadcast hopes the technology can be sold to third parties interested in using it a number of different ways - from sport broadcasting to entertainment and game shows. uk firm faces venezuelan land row  venezuelan authorities have said they will seize land owned by a british company as part of president chavez's agrarian reform programme.  officials in cojedes state said on friday that farmland owned by a subsidiary of the vestey group would be taken and used to settle poor farmers. the government is cracking down on so-called latifundios, or large rural estates, which it says are lying idle. the vestey group said it had not been informed of any planned seizure.  the firm, whose agroflora subsidiary operates 13 farms in venezuela, insisted that it had complied fully with venezuelan law. prosecutors in the south of the country have targeted hato el charcote, a beef cattle ranch owned by agroflora. according to reuters, they plan to seize 12,900 acres (5,200 hectares) from the 32,000 acre (13,000 hectare) farm.  officials claim that agroflora does not possess valid documents proving its ownership of the land in question. they also allege that areas of the ranch are not being used for any form of active production. "the legal boundaries did not match up with the actual boundaries and there is surplus," state prosecutor alexis ortiz told reuters. "as a consequence the government has taken action."  controversial reforms passed in 2001 give the government the right to take control of private property if it is declared idle or ownership cannot be traced back to the 19th century.  critics say the powers - which president chavez argues are needed to help the country's poorest citizens and develop the venezuelan economy - trample all over private property rights. the vestey group said it had owned the land since 1920 and would co-operate fully with the authorities. but a spokesman added: "agroflora is absolutely confident that what it has submitted will demonstrate the legality of its title to the land." the company pointed out that the farm, which employs 300 workers, provides meat solely for the venezuelan market.  last month, the government said it had identified more than 500 idle farms and had yet to consider the status of a further 40,000. the authorities said landowners whose titles were in order and whose farms were productive had "nothing to fear". under president chavez, the venezuelan government has steadily expanded the state's involvement in the country's economy. it recently said all mining contracts involving foreign firms would be examined to ensure they provided sufficient economic benefits to the state. baghdad blogger on big screen  a film based on the internet musings of the "baghdad blogger" has been shown at the rotterdam film festival.  the film has been directed by the man who calls himself salam pax, the author of the weblog about iraqi life during and after the war. the movie version comes in the form of a series of shorts made by pax on a hand-held camera. baghdad blogger is among a number of films about iraq showcased at the dutch festival, which runs until sunday. following the fascination with the writing of salam pax - not his real name - he began a regular column in the guardian newspaper and was given a crash course in documentary film-making. for the film he travelled iraq to document the changing landscape of the country and the problems it has faced since the invasion, speaking to ordinary iraqis about their experiences. the festival will also see the screening of underexposure, one of iraq's first features to emerge since the toppling of saddam hussein.  director oday rasheed made the film on discarded 1980s kodak film taken from the remains for the former ministry of culture building. it centres on the lives of families and strangers going about their everyday business as baghdad is under siege. rasheed said the title was refers to the isolation felt by iraqis under saddam's regime and the difficult time the country is now experiencing. "saddam's regime was hell, but now i think the hell has doubled," rasheed said. the festival was also due to screen murdered dutch film-maker theo van gogh's film about the treatment of woman under islam, but it was withdrawn due to safety fears. van gogh was shot and stabbed in november 2004, following death threats he received about his film submission. uk set to cut back on embassies  nine overseas embassies and high commissions will close in an effort to save money, uk foreign secretary jack straw has announced.  the bahamas, east timor, madagascar and swaziland are among the areas affected by the biggest shake-up for the diplomatic service for years. other diplomatic posts are being turned over to local staff. mr straw said the move would save £6m a year to free up cash for priorities such as fighting terrorism.  honorary consuls will be appointed in some of the areas affected by the embassy closures. nine consulates or consulates general will also be closed, mostly in europe and america.  they include dallas in the us, bordeaux in france and oporto in portugal, with local staff replacing uk representation in another 11. the changes are due to be put in place before the end of 2006, with most savings made from cutting staff and running costs. some of the money will have to be used to fund redundancy payments. in a written statement, mr straw said: "the savings made will help to underpin higher priority work in line with the foreign and commonwealth office's strategic priorities, including counter- proliferation, counter-terrorism, energy and climate change. "some of the savings will also be redeployed to strategic priority work within certain regions where we are closing posts. "in africa, for instance, we plan to create new jobs to cover these issues across the region, with a new post in nairobi to help support our work on climate change, one in nigeria to cover energy and one in pretoria to cover regional issues more generally as well as covering maseru and mbabane."  the foreign office currently has about 6,100 uk-based staff. it has opened major new missions on baghdad and basra in iraq, kabul in afghanistan and pyongyang in north korea since 1997 in response to what the government says are changing needs. since 1997 10 overseas posts have been closed - excluding wednesday's cuts - but 18 new embassies or consulates have been opened. the shake-up is aimed at helping making £86m in efficiency savings between 2005 and 2008. the chancellor has demanded all government departments make similar savings. shadow foreign secretary michael ancram said there was a constant need to ensure value for money from foreign missions. "but the government must give a far clearer reason for making the dramatic changes it has announced and must show that british commercial interests and the interests of britons abroad will not be adversely affected," he said. isinbayeva heads for birmingham  olympic pole vault champion yelena isinbayeva has confirmed she will take part in the 2005 norwich union grand prix in birmingham on 18 february.  "everybody knows how much i enjoy competing in britain. i always seem to break records there," said isinbayeva. "as olympic champion there will be more attention on me this year, but hopefully i can respond with another record in birmingham." kelly holmes and carolina kluft are among other athens winners competing. the organisers are hoping that isinbayeva's main rival, fellow russian svetlana feofanova, will also take part in the event. the pair had a thrilling battle in athens which ended with isinbayeva finally jumping a world record of 4.91m to claim the gold medal. isinbayeva, 22, has set 10 world records in the pole vault, three of which have come on british soil. open source leaders slam patents  the war of words between microsoft and the open source movement heated up this week as linux founder linus torvalds led an attack on software patents.  in a panel discussion at a linux summit in california mr torvalds said software patents were a problem for the open source movement. mitchell kapor, chairman of the mozilla foundation, warned that microsoft could use patent lawsuits in the future. linux is a freely-available alternative to microsoft's windows. it relies on a community of programmers for its development and is based on open source principles, which allow others to use and modify it without having to pay licence fees. the attack on software patents comes at a time when ibm has made 500 of its patents freely available. other companies are expected to follow suit.  there are between 150,000 and 300,000 registered software patents in the us and open source developers argue that many should never have been granted. this is a view corroborated by the uk patent office. "some of the patents have dubious validity and are being wielded by some big companies to force smaller companies to buy licenses in the knowledge that they can't afford to take them to court," said dr jeremy philpott of the uk patent office. some panel members are worried that microsoft would issue a series of patent lawsuits in the future. "if totally pushed to the wall - because their business model no longer holds up in an era in which open source is an economically superior way to produce software...of course they're going to unleash the wmds," mr kapor is reported as saying. microsoft did not want to comment directly, referring the issue instead to trade body intellect, of which it is a member. "as far as intellect is concerned, open source and patents have co-existed for many years without problems," said spokeswoman jill sutherland. "the industry respects the open source movement and in fact many of the members we represent use the open source system to develop software," "we think the important point to make is that companies should be able to choose between patents, copyrights and open source as to the treatment of their intellectual discoveries, and not be forced into using one or the other," she added. soaring oil 'hits world economy'  the soaring cost of oil has hit global economic growth, although world's major economies should weather the storm of price rises, according to the oecd.  in its latest bi-annual report, the oecd cut its growth predictions for the world's main industrialised regions. us growth would reach 4.4% in 2004, but fall to 3.3% next year from a previous estimate of 3.7%, the oecd said. however, the paris-based economics think tank said it believed the global economy could still regain momentum.  forecasts for japanese growth were also scaled back to 4.0% from 4.4% this year and 2.1% from 2.8% in 2005. but the outlook was worst for the 12-member eurozone bloc, with already sluggish growth forecasts slipping to 1.8% from 2.0% this year and 1.9% from 2.4% in 2005, the oecd said. overall, the report forecast total growth of 3.6% in 2004 for the 30 member countries of the oecd, slipping to 2.9% next year before recovering to 3.1% in 2006. "there are nonetheless good reasons to believe that despite recent oil price turbulence the world economy will regain momentum in a not-too-distant future," said jean-philippe cotis, the oecd's chief economist. the price of crude is about 50% higher than it was at the start of 2004, but down on the record high of $55.67 set in late october.  a dip in oil prices and improving jobs prospects would improve consumer confidence and spending, the oecd said. "the oil shock is not enormous by historical standards - we have seen worse in the seventies. if the oil price does not rise any further, then we think the shock can be absorbed within the next few quarters," vincent koen, a senior economist with the oecd, told the bbc's world business report. "the recovery that was underway, and has been interrupted a bit by the oil shock this year, would then regain momentum in the course of 2005." china's booming economy and a "spectacular comeback" in japan - albeit one that has faltered in recent months - would help world economic recovery, the oecd said. "supported by strong balance sheets and high profits, the recovery of business investment should continue in north america and start in earnest in europe," it added. however, the report warned: "it remains to be seen whether continental europe will play a strong supportive role through a marked upswing of final domestic demand." the oecd highlighted current depressed household expenditure in germany and the eurozone's over-reliance on export-led growth. us critics laud comedy sideways  road trip comedy sideways has had more praise heaped on it by two us critics' associations, adding to honours it has already picked up.  the chicago film critics association (cfca) named it winner in five categories including best film and best actor for paul giamatti. but the director award went to clint eastwood for million dollar baby. the southeastern film critics also awarded sideways its best film of the year accolade. director alexander payne was named best director, and he also won best screenplay shared with jim taylor. the cfca awarded thomas haden church the best supporting actor prize and virginia madsen the best supporting actress award for their roles in the film.  sideways has already been voted best film by critics associations in new york and los angeles and has been nominated for a golden globe. british actress imelda staunton won the cfca best actress for the gritty abortion drama vera drake, adding to a growing list of awards she has won for her performance in the mike leigh film. scrubs star zach braff was named best new director for his debut garden state. michael moore's controversial documentary fahrenheit 9/11 won the best documentary, while a very long engagement won best foreign film. the chicago critics have yet to name a date for when their awards ceremony will be held. labour targets 'hardcore truants'  a fresh crackdown on persistent truants in england has been launched by education secretary ruth kelly.  serial truants make up one in 13 pupils. previous initiatives brought 40,000 pupils back to school since 1997, according to official statistics. parenting contracts, penalty notices and "fast track" prosecution systems have been used to tackle what has been a stubborn problem. it is thought that nearly half a million children skip school each day. tories say labour's previous success regarding the issue came because it tackled the easy part of the problem by reducing authorised absence, where parents are permitted to take children out of school. such absences are often due to family holidays.  however, serial truants avoid the classroom despite government schemes costing £885m. those missing classes are more likely to become involved in crime as well as failing academically. measures such as parenting contracts and penalty notices were adopted by most local education authorities last term and come into force in the remainder this term. in one local education authority alone 800 parents were warned they would receive a penalty notice unless their child's attendance improved. the tough stance paid off with just 24 issued, while attendance improved in 776 cases. truancy has been reduced by 5% at the 128 worst hit schools through the government's behaviour improvement programme. this is the equivalent of 200 pupils back in classes since september.  the new measures come on top of national truancy sweeps - the sixth of which will take place on monday. police and education welfare officers patrol problem hotspots picking up truants and returning them to school. held twice each year, in addition to routine local patrols, previous country-wide sweeps have apprehended 31,000 pupils dodging school. in almost 14,000 of those cases, the youngsters were accompanied by their parents. a department for education and skills source said: "every day in school counts. "it is clear form these figures that schools and local education authorities are now seizing the tools we have given them to improve school attendance and crack down hard on the very small numbers of pupils which account for almost half of the nation's truancy." 2004: an irish athletics year  2004 won't be remembered as one of irish athletics' great years.  the year began with that optimism which invariably and unaccountably, seems to herald an upcoming olympiad. but come late august, a few hot days in the magnificent stadium in athens told us of the true strength of irish athletics - or to be more accurate, the lack of it. sonia o'sullivan's olympic farewell apart, there was little to stir the emotions of irish athletics watchers. but after the disastrous build-up to the games, we shouldn't have been surprised. at the start of the year, an o'sullivan had been earmarked as ireland's best medal prospect but as it turned out, walker gillian never even made it to the start line because of injury. less than a week before the olympics, the sport was rocked by news that 10,000m hope cathal lombard had tested for the banned substance epo. lombard's shattering of mark carroll's national 10,000m record in april had already set tongues wagging but even the most cynical of observers, were surprised when he was rumbled after an irish sports council sting operation. the corkman quickly held his hands up in admission and was promptly handed a two-year ban from the sport.  back at pre-olympic ranch in greece, it must have seemed that things couldn't have got any worse but they very nearly did with walker jamie costin lucky to escape with his life after being involved in a car crash near athens. once the track and field action began in athens, a familiar pattern of underachievement emerged although alistair cragg's performance in being the only athlete from a european nation to qualify for the 5,000m final did offer hope for the future. our beloved sonia scraped into the women's 5k final as a fastest loser and for a couple of days, the country attempted to delude itself into believing that she might be in the medal shake-up. as it happened, she went out the back door early in the final although there was nothing undignified about the way that she insisted on finishing the race over a minute behind winner meseret defar. it later transpired that sonia had been suffering from a stomach bug in the 48 hours before the final although typically, the cobhwoman played down the effects of the illness. amazingly, she was back in action a couple of weeks later when beating a world-class field at the flora lite 5k road race in london and while her major championship days may be over, it's unlikely that we have seen the last of her in competition. at least sonia managed to make it to athens. at the start of the year, several northern ireland athletes had genuine hopes of qualifying for the games but come august, an out-of-form and injured paul brizzel was the lone standard bearer for the province. the ballymena man gave it a lash but his achilles problem, and a bad lane draw, meant a time of 21.00 and an early exit.  james mcilroy, gareth turnbull, zoe brown and paul mckee all had to be content with watching the athens action on their television screens. 800m hope mcilroy never got near his best during the summer and a fourth place in the british trials effectively ended his hopes of making the plane. the injury-plagued turnbull gamely travelled round europe in search of the 1500m qualifying mark but 3:39 was the best he could achieve, after missing several months training during the previous winter. a lingering hamstring probem and a virus wrecked mckee's athens ambitions and both he and turnbull deserve a slice of better fortune in 2005. pole vaulter brown had hoped for a vote of confidence from the british selectors after she had achieved the athens b standard but the call never came. as the summer ended, stalwarts catherina mckiernan and dermot donnelly hung up their competitive spikes. mckiernan had to candidly acknowledge that time had crept up on her after several injury-ravaged years. donnelly and his annadale striders team-mates later suffered tragedy when their friend and clubman andy campbell was found dead at his home on 18 december. a large turnout of athletics-loving folk turned out in west belfast to offer their respects to the campbell family and andy's many friends. as only death can, it put the year's athletics happenings in a sharp perspective. reboot ordered for eu patent law  a european parliament committee has ordered a rewrite of the proposals for controversial new european union rules which govern computer-based inventions.  the legal affairs committee (juri) said the commission should re-submit the computer implemented inventions directive after meps failed to back it. it has had vocal critics who say it could favour large over small firms and impact open-source software innovation. supporters say it would let firms protect their inventions. the directive is intended to offer patent protection to inventions that use software to achieve their effect, in other words, "computer implemented invention". the draft law suffered setbacks when poland, one of the largest eu member states, rejected its adoption twice in two months. intense lobbying on the issue has started to gain momentum in some national parliaments putting them under immense pressure. only two meps backed the draft law at the juri meeting, with one voting to abstain.  opponents of the draft directive welcomed the decision and said a new first reading of the proposals would give the eu a chance to have fuller debates about its implications in all member states. in the us, the patenting of computer programs and internet business methods is permitted. this means that the us-based amazon.com holds a patent for its "one-click shopping" service, for example. critics are concerned that the directive could lead to a similar model happening in europe. this, they fear, could hurt small software developers because they do not have the legal and financial might of larger companies if they had to fight patent legal action in court. supporters say current laws are inefficient and it would serve to even up a playing field without bringing eu laws in line with the us. irish markets reach all-time high  irish shares have risen to a record high, with investors persuaded to buy into the market by low inflation and strong growth forecasts.  the iseq index of leading shares closed up 23 points to 6661.89 on thursday, fuelled by strong growth in banking and financial stocks. a fall in the rate of inflation to 2.3% in january gave a fresh boost to shares which have advanced 4% this month. the economy is set for strong growth in 2005 while interest rates remain low.  several of ireland's biggest companies saw their market value hit recent highs on thursday. allied irish banks, ireland's biggest company by capitalisation, touched a five year peak while bank of ireland shares rose to their highest level since august 2002.  telecoms firm eircom, which recently revealed that it would re-enter the irish mobile phone market, hit a yearly high. analysts said that economic conditions were benign and irish shares were still trading at a discount to other european markets. "ireland ticks all the boxes as far as international investors are concerned," roy asher, chief investment officer of hibernian investment managers, told reuters. "buoyant economic conditions are set to continue in ireland over the next few years and irish equities continue to offer quality growth at a reasonable valuation."  bernard mcalinden, head of equity research at ncb stockbrokers, said equities represented good value compared to other investments. "it is still looking good," he told reuters. "we have seen good economic data on ireland which benefits the financial stocks." ireland's economic 'miracle' is enjoying a second wind, with 5% growth forecast for 2005 and 2006. the economy cooled markedly between 2001 and 2003 after enjoying spectacular growth of more than 10% in 2000. however, it has bounced back strongly with growth of just under 5% expected in 2004. dirty den's demise seen by 14m  more than 14 million people saw "dirty" den watts killed off on friday, marking eastenders' 20th anniversary, according to unofficial figures.  den's death came 16 years after he was supposedly shot in 1989. but he came back to the show in september 2003. the audience for bbc one's one-hour special averaged 13.7 million and peaked at 14.2 million in the last 15 minutes, overnight figures showed. den died after being confronted by zoe, chrissie and sam in the queen vic.  if the ratings are confirmed, the episode will have given the soap its highest audience for a year. the overnight figures showed almost 60% of the viewing public tuned into eastenders between 2000 and 2100 gmt, leaving itv1 with about 13%. "we are very pleased with the figures," a bbc spokesman said. "it shows viewers have really enjoyed the story of den's demise." the show's highest audience came at christmas 1986, when more than 30 million tuned in to see den, played by leslie grantham, hand divorce papers to wife angie.  two years later, 24 million saw him apparently shot by a man with a bunch of daffodils by a canal. more than 16 million viewers watched his return in 2003. the show's ratings have since settled down to about 12 million per episode. grantham hit the headlines in may after a newspaper printed photographs of him apparently exposing himself via a webcam from his dressing room. he also allegedly insulted four co-stars. he apologised for his "deplorable actions" and "a moment's stupidity". blunkett sorry over murder plan  david blunkett has apologised to mps after the home office announced "prematurely" via press release a review of murder laws.  the home secretary confirmed the review was to get under way in the wake of a law commission report which branded the current murder law as "a mess". he said the review would look at partial defences to murder, including provocation and at mandatory sentences. the home office has already said the review will begin next year.  on wednesday, a home office spokeswoman said the terms of reference for the review had not been established but it was likely to include only england and wales. news of the review was released because it was thought mr blunkett would make the official announcement in a commons debate on wednesday. but the announcement never came, with the home secretary saying the debate had never reached that stage. amid opposition anger, mr blunkett had to answer an emergency question in parliament on thursday. he said he had taken steps to ensure the incident was not repeated. shadow home secretary david davis welcomed his "gracious apology" and the review itself. but he argued the minister should have volunteered a formal statement instead of having to be "dragged" to face mps.  in its report, the law commission said it had found wide support among criminal justice professionals for an end to the mandatory life sentence for murder. the panel suggested different kinds of murders could be "graded" to recognise the seriousness of the offence.  but the home office said mandatory life sentences would not be abolished and argued courts already had flexibility. the commission, an independent body including two judges, a senior barrister and sentencing experts, had been asked to consider reforms to the defence of provocation in murder cases. but it said its proposals were unlikely to work without a far wider review of the law. results of a consultation exercise showed 64 respondents out of 146 - among them 21 judges - believed a mandatory life sentence for every murder was "indefensible and should cease".  a key question was whether one category should continue to cover all types of murder from mercy killings to serial or contract killings. the commission found support for the idea of grading murders so that the sentence reflected the seriousness of the offence. but speaking after the report was published, home office minister baroness scotland said: "murder is the most serious of crimes and we have no intention of abolishing the mandatory life sentence. "where an offender is convicted of murder, the court must pass a life sentence." the commission also recommended tightening the law so that the provocation defence cannot be used in cases where someone has killed for revenge, such as a jealous husband who murders an unfaithful wife. sprinter walker quits athletics  former european 200m champion dougie walker is to retire from athletics after a series of six operations left him struggling for fitness.  walker had hoped to compete in the new year sprint which is staged at musselburgh racecourse near edinburgh on tuesday and wednesday. the 31-year-old scot was suspended for two years in 1998 after testing positive for nandrolone. "i had intended to race but i'm running like a goon," said walker. he told the herald newspaper: "i'm not in great shape, after missing about a month of training. "i missed a big chunk of speed work over about three weeks, and then another week working in america. "if i'd had a half-decent mark it might have motivated me more, but i won't be racing. "i still enjoy training, but feel it's time to move on, and concentrate on a career." solutions to net security fears  fake bank e-mails, or phishing, and stories about id theft are damaging the potential of using the net for online commerce, say e-business experts.  trust in online security is falling as a result. almost 70% of those asked in a poll said that net firms are not doing enough to protect people. the survey of more than 1,000 people reported that 43% were not willing to hand over personal information online. it is worrying for shopaholics and firms who want to exploit the net. more people are becoming aware of online security issues but they have little confidence that companies are doing enough to counter the threats, said security firm rsa, which carried out the poll. an estimated 12 million britons now use the net as a way of managing their financial affairs. security experts say that scare stories and the vulnerabilities dogging e-commerce and e-banking are being taken seriously - by banks in particular.  "i don't think the threat is overplayed," barry beal, global security manager for capgemini, told the bbc news website. he added: "the challenge for banks is to provide the customer with something that improves security but balances that with usability." ensuring extra security measures are in place protects them too, as well as the individual, and it is up to both parties to make sure they do what is necessary to prevent fraud, he said. "card issuers will keep us informed of types of attacks and what procedure to take to protect ourselves. if we do that, they will indemnify us," he said. many believe using login details like usernames and passwords are simply not good enough anymore though. one of the biggest challenges to improving security online is how to authenticate an individual's identity. several security companies have developed methods which complement or replace passwords, which are easily compromised and easy to forget. last year, a street survey found that more than 70% of people would reveal their password for a bar of chocolate.  on average, people have to remember four different passwords. some resort to using the same one for all their online accounts. those who use several passwords often write them down and hide them in a desk or in a document on their computer. in a separate survey by rsa, 80% said they were fed up with passwords and would like a better way to login to work computer systems. for many, the ideal is a single online identity that can be validated once with a series of passwords and questions, or some biometric measurement like a fingerprint or iris scan with a token like a smartcard.  activcard is just one of the many companies, like rsa security, which has been trying to come up with just that. rsa has a deal with internet provider aol that lets people pay monthly for a one-time passcode generation service. users get a physical token which automatically generates a code which stays active for 60 seconds. many companies use a token-based method already for employees to access networks securely already. activcard's method is more complex. it is currently trailing its one-time passcode generation technology with uk banks. steve ash, from activcard, told the bbc news website there are two parts to the process of identification. the most difficult is to ascertain whether an individual is who they say they are when they are online.  "the end solution is to provide a method where you combine something the user knows with something they have and present those both." the method it has developed makes use of the chip embedded in bank cards and a special card reader which can generate unique codes that are active for a specified amount of time. this can be adjusted at any time and can be active for as little as 30 seconds before it changes. it combines that with usual usernames and passwords, as well as other security questions. "you take the card, put it in the reader, enter your pin number, and a code is given. "if you wanted then to transfer funds, for instance, you would have to have the code to authorise the transaction." the clever bit happens back at the bank's secure servers. the code is validated by the bank's systems, matching the information they expect with the customer's unique key. "each individual gets a key which is unique to them. it is a 2048-bit long number that is virtually impossible to crack," said mr ash. it means that in a typical security attack, explains mr ash, even if password information is captured by a scammer using keystroke software or just through spoof websites, they need the passcode. "by the time they go back [to use the information], the code has expired, so they can't prove who they are," according to mr ash. in the next few years, mr ash predicts that this kind of method will be commonplace before we see biometric authentication that is acceptable for widespread use. "pcs will have readers built into them, the cost of readers will be very cheap, and more people will have the cards." the gadgets we carry around, like personal digital assistants (pdas) and mobiles, could also have integrated card reader technology in them. "the pda or phone method is a possible alternative as people are always carrying phones around," he said. japanese banking battle at an end  japan's sumitomo mitsui financial has withdrawn its takeover offer for rival bank ufj holdings, enabling the latter to merge with mitsubishi tokyo.  sumitomo bosses told counterparts at ufj of its decision on friday, clearing the way for it to conclude a 3 trillion yen ($29bn) deal with mitsubishi. the deal would create the world's biggest bank with assets of about 189 trillion yen ($1.8 trillion). sumitomo's exit ends the most high profile fight in japanese bank history.  ufj holdings, japan's fourth-largest bank, has been at the centre of a fierce bid battle over the last year. sumitomo, japan's third-largest bank, tabled a higher offer for ufj than its rival, valuing the company at $35bn.  however, ufj's management was known to prefer the offer from mitsubishi tokyo financial group (mtfg), japan's second-largest bank. concerns were also raised about sumitomo's ability to absorb ufj and the former has now admitted defeat. "we believe the market and most investors accept a ufj-mtfg merger," sumitomo said in a statement. "given the ongoing integration of ufj and mtfg operations, persisting with our proposal may not be in the best interests of our shareholders or ufj's."  mitsubishi's takeover of ufj - which will be japan's largest-ever takeover deal - will still have to be approved by shareholders of the two firms. however, this is expected to be a formality. sumitomo may now turn its attention to deepening its ties with daiwa securities, another japanese financial firm. the two are set to merge their venture capital operations and there has been speculation that this could lead to a full-blown merger. japanese banks are increasingly seeking alliances to boost profits. redford's vision of sundance  despite sporting a corduroy cap pulled low over his face plus a pair of dark glasses, robert redford cuts an unmistakable figure through the star-struck crowds at sundance.  it's a rare downtown appearance for the man who started the annual festival in park city, utah back in the 1980s. now in its twenty-first year, sundance continues to grow. some 45,000 people are estimated to have descended on this small ski town with nothing but movies on the mind. it's an opportunity to meet and make deals. redford wanted sundance to be a platform for independent film-makers, but the commercial success of many showcased films have led to criticism that the festival is becoming too mainstream.  smaller festivals like slamdance and xdance, which take place during the same week in park city, are competing for sundance's limelight. but redford is not worried. "the more the merrier," he says. "the point was to create opportunities for people who may not have them. "once independent film had a place where the work could be seen, suddenly the merchants came. with them the celebrities came, then the paparazzi - and suddenly it began to take on a whole new tone," explains redford.  "people started to say we had gone mainstream and hollywood, but actually hollywood came to us because suddenly there was good business in independent film," he adds. international film-makers have always been celebrated here, but 2005 is the first year a dedicated world dramatic and documentary competition is being held.  redford wants the festival to encompass viewpoints he believes the american media fails to reflect, particularly how the us is perceived internationally. he has never hidden the fact that he is a democrat. but he reserves particular disdain for the current republican administration. "it's the ability to maintain the importance of dissent in a democratic system which right now is under threat with the attitude of this administration," he says. "i think many voices are being shut down or accused of being unpatriotic if they want to express another point of view. that's very unhealthy and very dangerous.  "if we take that policy into the world, there will be the same victims and the same consequences." sundance isn't just one big screening. there are discussion panels and q&a sessions with directors tackling controversial topics like america's "culture wars" and the iraq war. while redford wishes the festival to be a forum for dissent, the profile of the audience is fairly monolithic. educated, middle class and predominantly white americans comes sundance, with views from the same end of the political spectrum - anti-war and socially liberal. but redford knows this and started the sundance tv channel in an effort to reach a wider audience. "when you look at the films here, what we are presenting is very much egalitarian. and it's about good films and good story-telling be it african america, asian, women, gay, lesbian. "sooner or later we will do away with those stereotypical labels and people will say 'it's just a film by so-and so'." hunt demo at labour meeting  pro-hunt supporters are set to protest at labour's spring conference.  the countryside alliance says it expects up to 4,000 supporters to demonstrate against the hunting ban. they have agreed to keep to a demonstration site on the other side of the river tyne from the conference venue in gateshead. a bid to overturn the law banning hunting with dogs in england and wales has begun in the court of appeal. the ban comes into force on 18 february. the court of appeal is expected to rule early next week on whether the alliance's challenge has succeeded. richard dodd, regional director of the countryside alliance, said he expected between 2,000 and 4,000 supporters in tyneside to make their protest, with hunt horns and placards.  campaigners have been asked not to bring any animals or alcohol.  mr dodd said he did not believe there would be any repeat of the trouble which marred the pro-hunt demonstration outside parliament in september. "we are holding a static demonstration, just to remind labour that we are not going away," he said. northumbria police said the pedestrian millennium bridge, by the demonstration site, will be shut if necessary. but assistant chief constable david warcup has liaised with several protest groups and said all negotiations had gone well. fathers 4 justice, pensioners' rights activists and stop the war campaigners were also expected to demonstrate during the three-day conference which starts on friday. pro-hunt campaigners claims the 1949 parliament act - which extends the right of the house of commons to overrule the house of lords - was itself invalid because it was never passed by peers. the high court last month ruled the act was valid and the proposed hunting ban was lawful. pro-hunt supporters formally launched their second legal challenge to the ban in london's high court on thursday. the countryside alliance has lodged papers seeking a judicial review on human rights grounds. animal welfare groups have welcomed the ban, many of whom have campaigned for a ban for decades saying hunting is cruel and unnecessary. bekele sets sights on world mark  olympic 10,000m champion kenenisa bekele is determined to add the world indoor two mile record at february's norwich union grand prix in birmingham.  the 22-year-old will again be chasing a record held by his compatriot and mentor haile gebrselassie, who set the mark at the same meeting in 2003. "i am still as hungry to do as much as i can in this sport," said bekele. "and aiming for the two mile world record in birmingham is the next of those targets." gebrselassie's current record stands at eight minutes, 04.69 seconds. and bekele is no stranger to overhauling world marks at the national indoor arena. the ethiopian broke the world indoor 5,000m record on his debut at the meeting last year. compatriots mulugeta wondimu, abiyote abate and markos geneti, the world indoor bronze medallist over 3000m, will race against bekele on 18 february. the meet has already attracted a crop of olympic talent. britain's 800m and 1500m champion kelly holmes is taking part in the 1000m. swedish heptathlon gold medallist carolina kluft will contest the 60m hurdles. while men's 4x100m relay gold medallists jason gardener and mark lewis-francis will go head-to-head in the 60m. mobile networks seek turbo boost  third-generation mobile (3g) networks need to get faster if they are to deliver fast internet surfing on the move and exciting new services.  that was one of the messages from the mobile industry at the 3gsm world congress in cannes last week. fast 3g networks are here but the focus has shifted to their evolution into a higher bandwidth service, says the global mobile suppliers association. at 3gsm, siemens showed off a system that transmits faster mobile data. the german company said data could be transmitted at one gigabit a second - up to 20 times faster than current 3g networks. the system is not available commercially yet, but motorola, the us mobile handset and infrastructure maker, held a clinic for mobile operators on hsdpa (high speed downlink packet access), a high-speed, high bandwidth technology available now. early hsdpa systems typically offer around two megabits per second (mbps) compared with less than 384 kilobits per second (kbps) on standard 3g networks.  "high-speed downlink packet access (hsdpa) - sometimes called super 3g - will be vital for profitable services like mobile internet browsing and mobile video clips," according to a report published by uk-based research consultancy analysys. a number of companies are developing the technology. nokia and canada-based wireless communication products company sierra wireless recently agreed to work together on high speed downlink packet access. the two companies aim to jointly market the hsdpa solution to global network operator customers.  "while hsdpa theoretically enables data rates up to a maximum of 14mbps, practical throughputs will be lower than this in wide-area networks," said dr alastair brydon, author of the analysys report: pushing beyond the limits of 3g with hsdpa and other enhancements. "the typical average user rate in a real implementation is likely to be in the region of one megabit per second which, even at this lower rate, will more than double the capacity... when compared to basic wcdma [3g]," he added. motorola has conducted five trials of its technology and says speeds of 2.9mbps have been recorded at the edge of an outdoor 3g cell using a single hsdpa device. but some mobile operators are opting for a technology called evolution, data optimised (ev-do).  us operator sprint ordered a broadband data upgrade to its 3g network at the end of last year. we are "expanding our network and deploying ev-do technology to meet customer demand for faster wireless speeds," said oliver valente, sprint's vice president for technology development, when the contract was announced. as part of $3bn in multi-year contracts announced late last year, sprint will spend around $1bn on ev-do technology from lucent technologies, nortel networks and motorola that provides average data speeds of 0.3-0.5 megabits a second, and peak download rates of 2.4mbps. mmo2, the uk-based operator with services in the uk, ireland and germany, has opted for technology based on the high speed downlink packet access (hsdpa) standard. using technology from lucent, it will offer data speeds of 3.6mbps from next summer on its isle of man 3g network, and will eventually support speeds of up to 14.4mbps. us operator cingular wireless is also adopting hsdpa, using technology from lucent alongside equipment from siemens and ericsson.  siemens' plans for a one gigabit network may be more than a user needs today, but christoph caselitz, president of the mobile networks division at the firm says that: "by the time the next generation of mobile communication debuts in 2015, the need for transmission capacities for voice, data, image and multimedia is conservatively anticipated to rise by a factor of 10." siemens - in collaboration with the fraunhofer german-sino lab for mobile communications and the institute for applied radio system technology - has souped up mobile communications by using three transmitting and four receiving antennae, instead of the usual one. this enables a data transmission, such as sending a big file or video, to be broken up into different flows of data that can be sent simultaneously over one radio frequency band. the speeds offered by3g mobile seemed fast at the time mobile operators were paying huge sums for 3g licences. but today, instead of connecting to the internet by slow, dial-up phone connection, many people are used to broadband networks that offer speeds of 0.5 megabits a second - must faster than 3g. this means users are likely to find 3g disappointing unless the networks are souped up. if they aren't, those lucrative "power users", such as computer geeks and busy business people will avoid them for all but the most urgent tasks, reducing the potential revenues available to mobile operators. but one gigabit a second systems will not be available immediately. siemens says that though the system works in the laboratory, it still has to assess the mobility of multiple-antennae devices and conduct field trials. a commercial system could be as far away as 2012, though siemens did not rule out an earlier date. rich grab half colombia poor fund  half of the money put aside by the colombian government to help the country's poor is benefiting people who do not need it, a study has found.  a total of 24.2 trillion pesos ($10.2bn; £5.5bn) is earmarked for subsidies for the poor, the government department for planning said. but it also found 12.1 trillion pesos was going to the richest part of the population, rather than to those in need. sound distribution of the cash could cut poverty levels to 36% from 53%, the government believes. "resources are more than enough to reduce poverty and there is no need for more tax reforms but a better distribution," deputy planning director jose leibovich said.  colombia has a population of about 44 million and half lives below poverty line. however, some large properties are paying less in tax as they are situated inside poor areas, which benefit from cheaper utilities such as electricity and water, government research found. government expenditure in areas such as pensions, public services, education, property and health should be revised, mr leibovich said. he added that the government is now examining the report, but warned there would be no easy solution to the problem. with a good distribution of such subsidies and economic growth of just 2%, by 2019 poverty could fall as low as 15.3%, he said. dvd review: harry potter and the prisoner of azkaban  this third harry potter film brought a change of director and a dramatic visual shake-up that really shines on dvd.  gone are the warm, bright colours found in the two earlier films, alfonso cuaron brings in a bleak and cold feel that is simply gorgeous - and looks even better here than in the cinema. it is all part of the progression of harry's story into darker areas, but you'll spend time just marvelling at the beautiful hogwarts landscape.  this is the first potter film where you get so lost in the screen adaptation that you forget the book. it is the third year at hogwarts and studies are interrupted, as they always are, by a calamity that only harry, ron and hermione can put right.  it sounds corny. but harry is no longer the winsome hero, he is a moody teenager and daniel radcliffe pulls it off very well. emma watson is ever better as hermione, and the young stars are joined by the usual myriad famous actors including gary oldman and emma thompson. the film itself is the reason to buy this dvd. but it is laden with behind-the-scenes extras, including funny, if shallow, interviews with all the main cast. but what seems like a long list of features can be swiftly whittled down to the few that you are going to watch. younger viewers will go for the games which include a magic you may have missed memory test, and crookshanks chasing off after scabbers. adult viewers will ignore those and go straight to the deleted scenes. you will understand why they were deleted but it is fun to see more footage - and not have to hunt through endless menus to find it, as we did on the first harry potter dvd. the most interesting pieces are an interview with jk rowling in creating the vision and conjuring a scene, a short featurette about the making of the film's big moments. protesters plan airport challenge  campaigners against the expansion of britain's airports have begun challenging the government's plans in the high court.  baa's expansion of stansted airport in essex by building an extra runway is one of the most fiercely opposed plans. opponents say the £2bn cost of the new runway could not be met unless cash from heathrow and gatwick was used. they said this is illegal under current rules and are trying to block the government from changing legislation. baa are also owners of the airports at heathrow and gatwick. they have said they cannot raise the money needed for the stansted upgrades from current landing charges. baa also says it has attempted to involve communities in any future airport plans.  groups challenging the plans include stop stansted expansion, heathrow anti-noise campaigners hacan clearskies and the london boroughs of hillingdon and wandsworth. their opponents are also likely to complain there was no public consultation before an extra runway was built at luton airport, or when it changed take-off and landing procedures at heathrow. if the group wins, the government's future aviation plans outlined in last year's transport white paper could be left in ruins.  the campaigners will say the government did not adequately consider the building of new airports, such as one planned for the isle of sheppey east of london. lord hanningfield, leader of essex county council, told bbc radio 4's today programme: "we are going to the high court because we want a judge to rule there should be a proper inquiry. "we want a judge to say there has been inadequate preparation, consultation and thought before the government came out with its green paper. "then there could be a proper debate nationally about where this extra capacity should go." he added: "politicians should not decide where runways should be." the stansted expansion, apart from the building of the new runway, would also need to include new terminal buildings to deal with the projected 50m passengers who will use it every year.  the airport is the hub of many of the no-frills airlines operating in the uk. but baa has said it has attempted to involve communities in any future airport plans. at heathrow, gatwick, edinburgh and glasgow airports, baa launched a series of consultations on blight to properties from the proposed expansion in september 2004, which will close next week. baa is also offering to buy noise-hit properties for an index-linked, unblighted price. at heathrow, baa said it was working closely with all interested parties to see how the strict environmental, air quality and noise targets for a third runway can be met. at gatwick, the company has written to homes and business likely to be affected by any extra runway. greek sprinters suspended by iaaf  greek sprinters kostas kenteris and katerina thanou have been suspended after failing to take drugs tests before the athens olympics.  athletics' ruling body the iaaf said explanations from the pair and their former coach as to why they missed the tests were "unacceptable". it added that kenteris and thanou had been "provisionally suspended pending the resolution of their cases". they face two-year bans if found guilty by the greek athletics federation. the suspension also covers the athletes' controversial coach, christos tzekos. kenteris, the 2000 olympic 200m champion, and thanou, the women's 100m silver medallist from the same games in sydney, also face a criminal hearing in greece over the missed tests. they failed to appear to give samples in chicago and tel aviv shortly before the athens games and again in athens on 12 august, the eve of the opening ceremony. greek prosecutors have also charged them with faking a midnight motorcycle crash which led to them spending four days in hospital. some medical staff have been charged with writing false medical reports. wednesday's statement said the greek federation (segas) would convene a disciplinary hearing for the trio to determine whether there had been doping violations.  "there will be a final right of appeal from the decision of the greek federation to the court of arbitration for sport," the iaaf said. tzekos insisted he and the runners had nothing to hide. "the iaaf's decision means nothing," he said. "we'll be presenting all our arguments to segas - we're innocent." global digital divide 'narrowing'  the "digital divide" between rich and poor nations is narrowing fast, according to a world bank report.  the world bank questioned a united nation's campaign to increase usage and access to technology in poorer nations. "people in the developing world are getting more access at an incredible rate - far faster than... in the past," said the report. but a spokesman for the un's world summit on the information society said the digital divide remained very real. "the digital divide is rapidly closing," the world bank report said.  half the world's population now has access to a fixed-line telephone, the report said, and 77% to a mobile network.  the report's figures surpass a wsis campaign goal that calls for 50% access to telephones by 2015. the un hopes that widening access to technology such as mobile phones and the net will help eradicate poverty. "developing countries are catching up with the rich world in terms of access [to mobile networks]," the report said. "africa is part of a worldwide trend of rapid rollout... this applies to countries rich and poor, reformed or not, african, asian, european and latin american."  a spokesman for the world summit for the information society (wsis), which is meeting this week in geneva, told the bbc news website: "the digital divide is very much real and needs to be addressed. "some financing has to be found to help narrow the divide." on tuesday, a meeting of the wsis in geneva agreed to the creation of a digital solitary fund. "the fund is voluntary and will help finance local community-based projects," said the wsis spokesman. under the proposals agreed, voluntary contribution of 1% on contracts obtained by private technology service providers could be made to the digital solidarity fund. the exact financing mechanism of the fund is to be ironed out in the coming days, said the wsis. sixty percent of resources collected by the fund will be made available for projects in least developed countries, 30% for projects in developing countries, and 10% for projects in developed countries. rover deal 'may cost 2,000 jobs'  some 2,000 jobs at mg rover's midlands plant may be cut if investment in the firm by a chinese car maker goes ahead, the financial times has reported.  shanghai automotive industry corp plans to shift production of the rover 25 to china and export it to the uk, sources close to the negotiations tell the ft. but rover told bbc news that reports of job cuts were "speculation". a tie-up, seen as rover's last chance to save its longbridge plant, has been pushed by uk chancellor gordon brown. rover confirmed the tie-up would take place "not very far away from this time".  rover bosses have said they are "confident" the £1bn ($1.9bn) investment deal would be signed in march or early april.  transport & general worker's union general secretary tony woodley repeated his view on friday that all mergers led to some job cuts. he said investment in new models was needed to ensure the future of the birmingham plant. "this is a very crucial and delicate time and our efforts are targeted to securing new models for the company which will mean jobs for our people," he said. saic says none of its money will be paid to the four owners of rover, who have been accused by unions of awarding themselves exorbitant salaries, the ft reports. "saic is extremely concerned to ensure that its money is used to invest in the business rather than be distributed to the shareholders," the newspaper quotes a source close to the chinese firm. meanwhile, according to chinese state press reports, small state-owned carmaker nanjing auto is in negotiations with rover and saic to take a 20% stake in the joint venture. saic was unavailable for comment on the job cuts when contacted by bbc news. rover and saic signed a technology-sharing agreement in august. vera drake scoops film award  oscar hopefuls mike leigh and imelda staunton were both winners at the 2004 evening standard british film awards.  vera drake - leigh's 1950s drama about a backstreet abortionist - was named best film and staunton, who played the title role, was named best actress. other winners included paddy considine, who was crowned best actor for his role in dead man's shoes. bridget jones: the edge of reason was named evening standard readers' film of 2004 at the central london ceremony.  leigh was presented with his winner's statuette by timothy spall and staunton's award was announced by patrick stewart, during the glittering ceremony at the savoy on sunday night. evening standard film critic derek malcolm said: "he [leigh] has never made a film that is better controlled and technically more secure... if this isn't one of the films of the year, i don't know what is." the alexander walker special award - which honours those who have made a supreme contribution to british film - went to tim bevan and eric fellner, the co-chairmen of working title films. the production company is behind films such as my beautiful laundrette, billy elliot, about a boy, shaun of the dead and bridget jones: the edge of reason.  simon pegg, who stars in and co-wrote shaun of the dead, won the 2004 peter sellers award for comedy. other winners included emily blunt and nathalie press who were jointly named itv london most promising newcomer award for their performances in pawel pawlikowski's rites-of-passage story, my summer of love. pawlikowski won the best screenplay statuette, while roger deakins won the technical achievement award for his cinematography on the village and the ladykillers. guests at the ceremony included dame judi dench, kim cattrall, charles dance, bill nighy and colin firth. the awards, which were hosted by jack dee, are to be screened on itv london on tuesday at 2300 gmt. tories attack burglar 'u-turns'  tory leader michael howard has accused tony blair of performing u-turns over rules on using force against burglars.  the government has ruled out amending the present law, which allows "reasonable force" in self defence. mr howard branded the decision unacceptable, saying: "it is not householders who should be frightened, it's the burglars." home secretary charles clarke said ministers had kept to their pledge to review the law.  metropolitan police commissioner sir john stevens last month backed a tory attempt to change the law so only householders using "grossly disproportionate" force could be prosecuted. the pressure prompted the prime minister to say the police and crown prosecution service would be consulted as part of a review of the law. he told mps: "if we get the right response from those people, we will, of course, support a change in the law." instead, the government has decided no change is needed but there will be a publicity campaign so people are clear they are entitled to defend themselves. on thursday, mr howard told bbc radio 4's today programme mr blair had initially refused the law change, then had come round to the idea and was now backtracking again. he said: "we've had three policy positions in three months and two u-turns. "it's not surprising gordon brown told him: 'there's nothing you could say to me now that i could ever believe.'"  mr howard said the "grossly disproportionate" test matched the hurdle ministers had introduced for civil cases where burglars where claimed compensation from householders. the issue entered the public spotlight when norfolk farmer tony martin was jailed for shooting dead a 16-year-old burglar in 1999 as he ran away from the farm. but the home secretary said mr howard was wrong to say the law was biased in favour of burglars. the barrister who had represented mr martin had said the rules were "weighted overwhelmingly" in favour of the householder, said mr clarke. he said: "the problem is there has not been enough understanding of it - that was the point sir john stevens was making and the prime minister was making." the new guidance would help ensure clarity on the issue, added mr clarke. the director of public prosecutions, ken macdonald, says only 11 householders or occupiers of business premises have been prosecuted in the last 15 years. those cases included a warehouse manager who had waited for a burglar, tied him up, beat him and set him alight, he said. tory mp patrick mercer's private member's bill to change the law received a first reading in parliament on wednesday and goes to a full debate next month. athens memories soar above lows  well, it's goodbye to another olympic year and as usual there were plenty of highs and lows in athens.  obviously, there's no getting away from the differing fortunes of kelly holmes and paula radcliffe. but i want to remind you of a few more events that made 2004 another year to remember - or forget - for athletics.      one of my favourite olympic moments was kelly's success in the 800m.  winning that race was the key to her success because if she won that then the 1500m would be a bit of a formality. kelly had been full of "should i, shouldn't i?" thoughts about going for the double in athens. i thought why wouldn't you do the 800m, it's your best event? it was such good fun to commentate on her 1500m and it was nice to be able to be part of her athens story.      the victory for the british men's 4x100m relay team was a bit of a surprise but a great climax to the games. i think the four of them - jason gardener, darren campbell, marlon devonish and mark lewis-francis - knew deep down that it was their best chance of a medal. the lads had run poorly in the individual sprints so maybe they did lift their game when they knew something was really at stake.      hicham el guerrouj's olympic double is a much bigger achievement than kelly's on a global scale.  he was the first man since for 80 years to win both the 1500m and 5,000m titles. as soon as he had added the 5,000m crown and i had finished commentating, i jumped up, ran down the stairs, pushed everyone out the way and just gave him a big hug. he is one of the few african runners who has embraced the tradition of the mile and he loves to hear all the roger bannister stories. hicham is someone i enjoy having a bit of time with, even though my french and his english are not very good.      what happened to paula in athens this year is the obvious low on a personal level and for the expectations of the nation as well. there were a set of circumstances around athens that conspired to produce a very dramatic ending which i think has been greatly misunderstood. dropping out of the marathon was the right thing to do but starting in the 10,000m five days later was not wise. that was her heart and not her head reacting. paula had a lot of little things going wrong in her preparation and on the day.  things like niggling injuries, not being able to do all her running sessions and feeling the pressure of the race looming ahead of her. i think she came to the start line in athens physically and emotionally drained. and if even the smallest thing doesn't feel right when you are preparing to race a marathon, 10 miles down the road it will hit you like a brick wall. the positive thing to take from paula's olympics it that she will have learned a lot from it and so will a lot of people - including me.      purely as a race, paula's victory in the new york marathon has to go down as one of the most thrilling. it was so nip-and-tuck between her and kenya's susan chepkemei and you don't usually get that kind of excitement in marathons. it was also a real delight for all athletics fans because, to use one of my favourite words, paula showed real "bouncebackability". and it was a bit of a rarity for me too because i genuinely did not have an inkling how the race was going to pan out.      kelly and the 4x100m boys' victories papered over the cracks in the general performance of the british team. we should be concerned that we're not producing enough people who are capable of reaching finals at senior level.  the only individual men's finalist on the track was michael east in the 1500m. i am beginning to look down and wonder where are the new breed? and that's where things begin to look even gloomier for british athletics as we did not win any medals at the world junior championships in italy. dani barnes came fourth in the 1500m and she was the highest finisher for team gb. the thing is if we don't have athletes getting into the finals at junior level then it really doesn't look good for the beijing olympics and beyond.      i tell you what i really enjoyed this year, benita johnson winning the world cross country championships back in march. in the absence of paula, we tend to think of the event as something of an african preserve. so to have an australian come up and deliver such a surprise was something special.      to be honest, i'm getting bored with all the drug scandals, especially balco. i just wish the whole thing would come to a head so we can move on.  having said that, i'm always pleased when drugs cheats are caught because it shows the sport is standing up to it and not turning a blind eye anymore. and one of the positive things to come out of balco is people are starting to blow the whistle. we need more people to come forward and help the authorities kick out the cheats. as regards the case against greek sprinters kostas kenteris and katerina thanou, well suspicions have been hanging over kenteris for a while. the bottom line is we cannot keep letting drugs damage the sport because if we do then it stops everyone enjoying it. uk gets official virus alert site  a rapid alerting service that tells home computer users about serious internet security problems is being launched by the uk government.  the service, it safe, will issue warnings about damaging viruses, software vulnerabilities and weaknesses on devices such as mobile phones. alerts tell people how the threats affect them and what they can do to avoid trouble and protect themselves. the service will be free and those who sign up can get e-mail or text alerts. the scheme is aimed at home users and small businesses. the government estimates it will issue security alerts about six to 10 times a year, based on previous experience of virus outbreaks. "there is a clear need for easy-to-understand and simple independent advice for non-technically minded people who use computers either at home or at work," said home office minister hazel blears. "the purpose of this new government service is to ensure computer users are aware of the risks involved and how to deal with them easily and effectively without causing alarm." those signing up will only be told about the most serious security threats that have the potential to affect millions of people.  full-time staff are being employed to comb through the many hundreds of alerts issued each year by computer security firms to spot which ones have the potential to catch out a large number of people between alerts the service will occasionally send messages giving people advice about safe ways to use their computers and phones. "it safe will take our technical expertise and use it to help home users understand the risks and keep their computer systems, mobile phones and a range of related consumer electronic items, safe," said roger cumming, director of the national infrastructure security coordination centre (niscc).  the niscc, which is running the service, also stressed that those signing up would still need to use anti-virus software, firewalls, and software updates to stay secure. warnings about security problems will tell people what the problem is, how it affects them and what they can do to avoid trouble. alerts will not be issued unless users can do something to protect themselves against the threat. this might include downloading an update from an anti-virus vendor or updating software to close loopholes and fix vulnerabilities. however no software patches or programs will actually be dispensed through the site. the alerts will tell people how to go about getting hold of patches from security firms. the niscc spokesman said the site and alerting service would stay in existence for as long as there were security bugs on home computers and other gadgets.  government statistics show that more than half of all uk households own a home computer. it was estimated that almost 13 million of these were able to access the internet in 2004. the launch comes as the number of viruses and other malicious programs in existence is reaching unprecedented numbers. in september 2004, the number of malicious programs circulating topped the 100,000 mark. some fear that this figure could hit 150,000 by september 2005. the creation of the national alert service follows similar efforts in the netherlands and us. the national alerting service for the netherlands (aka de waarschuwingsdienst) and the us national cyber alerting service also tell citizens of serious security threats. ad firm wpp's profits surge 15%  uk advertising giant wpp has posted larger-than-expected annual profits and predicted that it will outperform the market in 2005.  pre-tax profits rose 15% from a year ago to reach £546m ($1.04bn), ahead of average analysts' forecasts of £532m. revenues were £4.3bn while the firm's operating margins were 14.1%, which it said could reach 14.8% by 2006. during the year wpp bought us rival grey global, creating a giant big enough to rival sector leader omnicom.  chief executive martin sorrell on friday told reuters news agency that wpp had submitted a proposal for united business media's nop world market research unit. analysts say the unit sell could sell for up to £350m. wpp in recent years has also bought firms such as ogilvy & mather and cordiant communications. it also includes the firms young & rubicam and j walter thompson. events such as the olympics helped boost wpp's profits in 2004. the company said the us congressional elections and the fifa world cup are likely to present advertising opportunities in the near future. the long-term outlook looks "very favourable" because of media and technology developments and the strength of the us economy, wpp said. hundreds vie for best film oscar  a total of 267 films are eligible for the best film oscar but only five will be chosen to go forward as nominees.  the academy of motion picture, arts and sciences has sent out the first ballot papers with the full list of films vying for recognition. among those expected to receive nominations are the aviator, million dollar baby and sideways. academy members will now vote for their favourites before the final nominees are announced on 25 january.  to be eligible for nomination a film must have been shown in a commercial theatre for seven consecutive days before the deadline of 31 december. director martin scorsese's the aviator, starring leonardo dicaprio went on general release on christmas day in the us, ensuring it just made the deadline. studios have already begun lobbying voters, taking out full page adverts in trade publications such as variety urging them to remember particular films when it comes to choosing what to back. other movies tipped for possible success include closer, starring jude law and julia roberts, finding neverland, with johnny depp as author jm barry and kinsey starring liam neeson as the famed sex scientist alfred kinsey. meanwhile, design engineer takuo miyagishima will be awarded an oscar at the scientific and technical awards dinner on 12 february 2005. miyagishima is the 18th recipient of the sawyer award, which is "presented to an individual in the motion picture industry whose technological contributions have brought credit to the industry." the main oscar ceremony will be held in los angeles on 27 february. leaders meet over turkish eu bid  tony blair has met italian prime minister silvio berlusconi and german chancellor gerhard schroeder to talk about turkey entering the eu.  the downing street talks covered a range of other topics ahead of an eu summit in brussels later in the week. mr blair is an enthusiastic proponent of talks to bring turkey within the recently-expanded eu. italy and germany also favour an early start to talks, but there is scepticism in france and elsewhere. some are worried that turkey's large and rapidly growing population and low average income might make integration into the eu difficult.  some are concerned that a change of government could lead to turkey reneging on key human rights reforms it has recently enacted. and many in france would prefer turkey to admit that world war i-era killing of armenians constituted genocide. there are also issues in france and the netherlands over the possible problems of integrating the first major muslim nation into the eu. but mr blair and the labour government have been the staunchest backers of turkish accession, provided it sticks with human rights and economic reform. mr blair's official spokesman said: "the prime minister has regular meetings with both of them and particularly in advance of european councils. "the key issue at this week's council will be that of turkey, but they will also discuss a range of other matters." collins banned in landmark case  sprinter michelle collins has received an eight-year ban for doping offences after a hearing at the north american court of arbitration for sport (cas).  america's former world indoor 200m champion is the first athlete to be suspended without a positive drugs test or an admission of drugs use. collins' ban is a result of her connection to the federal inquiry into the balco doping scandal. the 33-year-old was found guilty of using performance-enhancing drugs. the us anti-doping agency (usada) decided to press charges against collins in the summer. the sprinter has consistently protested her innocence but the cas has upheld usada's findings. "the usada has proved, beyond a reasonable doubt, that collins took epo, the testosterone/epitestosterone cream and thg," said a cas statement. "collins used these substances to enhance her performance and elude the drug testing that was available at the time." so far a total of 13 athletes have been sanctioned for violations involving drugs associated with the balco doping scandal. world record holder tim montgomery is also facing a lifetime ban after being charged by the usada. his hearing before the csa has been rescheduled for june next year.  drug enforcement chiefs in the us have vowed to crack down on cheats. usada chief executive officer terry madden said the action taken against collins was further proof of that. "the cas panel's decision confirms that those who violate the rules will be sanctioned as part of usada's ongoing efforts to protect the rights of the overwhelming majority of us athletes that compete drug-free," said madden. the usada has built its cases on verbal evidence given to the federal investigation into balco rather than test results. the san francisco-based balco laboratory faces steroid distribution and money laundering charges. the trial is expected to open next march. iran jails blogger for 14 years  an iranian weblogger has been jailed for 14 years on charges of spying and aiding foreign counter-revolutionaries.  arash sigarchi was arrested last month after using his blog to criticise the arrest of other online journalists. mr sigarchi, who also edits a newspaper in northern iran, was sentenced by a revolutionary court in the gilan area. his sentence, criticised by human rights watchdog reporters without borders, comes a day after an online "day of action" to secure his release. iranian authorities have recently clamped down on the growing popularity of weblogs, restricting access to major blogging sites from within iran. a second iranian blogger, motjaba saminejad, who also used his website to report on bloggers' arrests, is still being held.  a spokesman for reporters without borders, which tracks press freedom across the globe, described mr sigarchi's sentence as "harsh" and called on iranian president mohammed khatami to work to secure his immediate release. "the authorities are trying to make an example of him," the organisation said in a statement.  "by handing down this harsh sentence against a weblogger, their aim is to dissuade journalists and internet-users from expressing themselves online or contacting foreign media." in the days before his arrest mr sigarchi gave interviews to the bbc persian service and the us-funded radio farda. iranian authorities have arrested about 20 online journalists during the current crackdown. they accused mr sigarchi of a string of crimes against iranian state, including espionage, insulting the founder of iran's islamic republic, ayatollah ruhollah khomenei, and current supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei. mr sigarchi's lawyer labelled the revolutionary court "illegal and incompetent" and called for a retrial in a public court.  mr sigarchi was sentenced one day after an online campaign highlighted his case in a day of action in defence of bloggers around the world.  the committee to protect bloggers designated 22 february 2005 as free mojtaba and arash day. around 10,000 people visited the campaign's website during the day. about 12% of users were based in iran, the campaign's director told the bbc news website. curt hopkins said mr sigarchi's sentence would not dent the resolve of bloggers joining the campaign to help highlight the case. "the eyes of 8 million bloggers are going to be more focused on iran since sigarchi's sentence, not less. "the mullahs won't be able to make a move without it be spread across the blogosphere." us gives foreign firms extra time  foreign firms have been given an extra year to meet tough new corporate governance regulations imposed by the us stock market watchdog.  the securities and exchange commission has extended the deadline to get in line with the rules until 15 july 2006. many foreign firms had protested that the sec was imposing an unfair burden. the new rules are the result of the sarbanes-oxley act, part of the us clean-up after corporate scandals such as enron and worldcom. section 404 of the sox act, as the legislation is nicknamed, calls for all firms to certify that their financial reporting is in line with us rules. big us firms already have to meet the requirements, but smaller ones and foreign-based firms which list their shares on us stock markets originally had until the middle of this year.  over the past few months, delegations of european and other business leaders have been heading to the sec's washington dc headquarters to protest. they say the burden is too expensive and the timescale too short and some, particularly the uk's cbi, warned that companies would choose to let their us listings drop rather than get in line with section 404. the latest delegation from the cbi met sec officials on wednesday, just before the decision to relax the deadline was announced. "i think this signifies a change of heart at the sec," cbi director-general sir digby jones told the bbc's today programme. "they have been listening to us and to many overseas companies, who have reminded america what globalisation really means: that they can't make these rules in isolation." the sec said it had taken into consideration the fact that foreign companies were already working to meet more onerous financial reporting rules in their home countries. the european union, in particular, was imposing new international financial reporting standards in 2005, it noted. "i don't underestimate the effort (compliance) will require... but this extension will provide additional time for those issuers to take a good hard look at their internal controls," said donald nicolaisen, the sec's chief accountant. hanks greeted at wintry premiere  hollywood star tom hanks was in london's leicester square for the uk premiere of polar express.  the west end landmark was turned into a festive landscape complete with snow and carol singers to celebrate the arrival of the animated film. "this is leicester square like you've never seen it before," said hanks, who plays five roles in the movie. polar express is based on a children's book which tells the story of a young boy's journey to meet santa claus. the 48-year-old actor crossed a three-metre high bridge built in the square, which he said was "almost impossible to get across". hundreds of fans greeted the star, all wearing santa hats, and mince pies were on offer. hanks said that the new film has an "elegant message". "christmas is a special time of the year and you get out of it what you put into it," added the two-time academy award winner.  "i believe in the spirit of christmas and i think that's embodied in santa claus," he said. polar express uses technology similar to that used in lord of the rings to bring gollum to life. the "performance capture" technique enables hanks to play a number of roles, including the eight-year-old boy who is at the centre of the story, and father christmas. it is directed by robert zemeckis, who has previously worked with hanks on forrest gump and castaway. choose hope over fear - kennedy  voters will have a clear choice between the politics of fear and the politics of hope in the next general election, said charles kennedy.  in his new year message the liberal democrat leader said labour and the conservatives were united in relying on fear and "populist scares". he said his party was the one of hope and was ready for a 2005 poll. on the asian tsunami he said it had been "very heartening" to learn of the generosity being shown by britons. mr kennedy said his thoughts were with all those caught up in the disaster, which had dominated the christmas and new year period. at home he said many people were turning to the liberal democrats as they became disheartened with the politics of the other two main parties.  the general election would be a three-party struggle, as the conservative party "fades away" as a national force and the liberal democrats challenge labour in its heartlands, he said. "a clear division is emerging in british politics - the politics of fear versus the politics of hope. "labour is counting on the politics of fear, ratcheting up talk of threats, crime and insecurity. while the conservatives are re-working their populist scares about asylum and the european 'menace'," he said. he said the government was using this climate of fear to try to strip away civil liberties.  it was already using detention without trial at belmarsh prison, ignoring a recent law lords judgement that this contravenes basic human rights, he said. he also criticised attempts to bring in trial without jury, plans to lower the burden of proof in some criminal trials, curbing of rights to protest, increased stop and search powers and id card plans. he said while everyone had the right to be secure they also had the right to be protected against unfair discrimination. "but at the same time, an overmighty state is a dangerous one," he said. his party "instinctively" understood the "new liberal britain" which is no longer a nation with one family structure, and one colour, he said. "we are less deferential; more inclined to think for ourselves; more open about sexuality and equality. "our national institutions are changing too. we are no longer a nation of one church; we are a nation of many faiths. in our attitudes and the way we live our lives, this is in many ways a liberal britain." jones doping probe begins  an investigation into doping claims against marion jones has been opened by the international olympic committee.  ioc president jacques rogge has set up a disciplinary body to look into claims by victor conte, of balco laboratories. jones, who says she is innocent, could lose all her olympic medals after conte said he gave her performance-enhancing drugs before the sydney olympics. but rogge said it was too early to speculate about that, hoping only that "the truth will emerge".  any decision on the medals would be taken by the ioc's executive board and could hinge on interpretation of a rule stating that olympic decisions can only be challenged within three years of the games closing. the sydney olympics ended more than four years ago, but world anti-doping agency chief dick pound said the rule may not apply because the allegations are only coming out now. "we will find a way to deal with that," pound said. in a statement released through her attorney rich nichols, jones repeated her innocence and vowed she would be cleared. "victor conte's allegations are not true and the truth will be revealed for the world to see as the legal process moves forward," she said. "conte is someone who is under federal indictment and has a record of issuing contradictory, inconsistent statements." microsoft seeking spyware trojan  microsoft is investigating a trojan program that attempts to switch off the firm's anti-spyware software.  the spyware tool was only released by microsoft in the last few weeks and has been downloaded by six million people. stephen toulouse, a security manager at microsoft, said the malicious program was called bankash-a trojan and was being sent as an e-mail attachment. microsoft said it did not believe the program was widespread and recommended users to use an anti-virus program. the program attempts to disable or delete microsoft's anti-spyware tool and suppress warning messages given to users.  it may also try to steal online banking passwords or other personal information by tracking users' keystrokes.  microsoft said in a statement it is investigating what it called a criminal attack on its software. earlier this week, microsoft said it would buy anti-virus software maker sybari software to improve its security in its windows and e-mail software. microsoft has said it plans to offer its own paid-for anti-virus software but it has not yet set a date for its release. the anti-spyware program being targeted is currently only in beta form and aims to help users find and remove spyware - programs which monitor internet use, causes advert pop-ups and slow a pc's performance. japanese mogul arrested for fraud  one of japan's best-known businessmen was arrested on thursday on charges of falsifying shareholder information and selling shares based on the false data.  yoshiaki tsutsumi was once ranked as the world's richest man and ran a business spanning hotels, railways, construction and a baseball team. his is the latest in a series of arrests of top executives in japan over business scandals. he was taken away in a van outside one of his prince hotels in tokyo.  there was a time when mr tsutsumi seemed untouchable. inheriting a large property business from his father in the 1960s, he became one of japan's most powerful industrialists, with close connections to many of the country's leading politicians. he used his wealth and influence to bring the winter olympic games to nagano in 1998. but last year, he was forced to resign from all the posts he held in his business empire, after being accused of falsifying the share-ownership structure of seibu railways, one of his companies. under japanese stock market rules, no listed company can be more than 80% owned by its 10 largest shareholders. now mr tsutsumi faces criminal charges and the possibility of a prison sentence because he made it look as if the 10 biggest shareholders owned less than this amount. seibu railways has been delisted from the stock exchange, its share value has plunged and it is the target of a takeover bid.  mr tsutsumi's fall from grace follows the arrests of several other top executives in japan as the authorities try to curb the murky business practices which were once widespread in japanese companies. his determination to stay at the top at all costs may have had its roots in his childhood. the illegitimate third son of a rich father, who made his money buying up property as japan rebuilt after world war ii, he has described the demands his father made. "i felt enormous pressure when i dined with him and it was nothing but pain," tsutsumi told a weekly magazine in 1987. "he scolded me for pouring too much soy sauce or told me fruit was not for children. he didn't let me use the silk futon, saying it's a luxury." there have been corporate governance issues at some other japanese companies too. last year, twelve managers from mitsubishi motors were charged with covering up safety defects in their vehicles and three executives from japan's troubled ufj bank were charged with concealing the extent of the bank's bad loans. film row over pirates 'cannibals'  plans to portray dominica's carib indians as cannibals in the sequel to hit film pirates of the caribbean have been criticised by the group's chief.  carib chief charles williams said talks with disney's producers revealed there was "a strong element of cannibalism in the script which cannot be removed". the caribbean island's government said disney planned to film in dominica. the caribs have long denied their ancestors practised cannibalism. disney was unavailable for comment. "our ancestors stood up against early european conquerors and because they stood up...we were labelled savages and cannibals up to today," said mr williams.  "this cannot be perpetuated in movies." shooting on the sequel is expected to begin in april, with hundreds of dominicans applying to be extras in the movie.  about 3,000 caribs live on the island of dominica, which has a population of 70,000. many caribs were killed by disease and war during colonisation up to the 1600s. mr williams said he had received support from indigenous groups around the world in his efforts to have cannibalism references removed from the film. but he admitted there were some members of the carib council who did not support the campaign. he said some did not "understand our history, they are weak and are not committed to the cause of the carib people". the first pirates of the caribbean film took $305m (£162m) at the box office in the us alone. the cast and crew are to work on two sequels back-to-back, with the first to be released in 2006. profile: david miliband  david miliband's rapid rise through the ranks of government continues with his promotion to cabinet office minister.  elected in a safe labour seat in 2001 his previous job was school standards minister - a role he won in may 2002. prior to the last election he was a key figure in new labour as the head of the downing street policy unit where he was a key member of the manifesto writing team. seen as one of the more intellectual figures in the government, he was also working for tony blair in his policy unit when he was leader of the opposition.  a brief glance at mr miliband's family background reveals an impressive socialist pedigree in the form of his father ralph, who died in 1994. he was an eminent and influential leftwing academic. and while david miliband is seen as a key blair lieutenant his brother ed is a special advisor to chancellor gordon brown. prior to working for mr blair, david miliband spent time at the left-leaning institute for public policy research. he then became secretary of the commission on social justice. the 39-year-old was educated at haverstock comprehensive before going on to oxford to study politics, philosophy and economics. he also took an msc in political science from the massachusetts institute of technology. johnson accuses british sprinters  former olympic champion michael johnson has accused britain's top sprinters of lacking pride and ambition.  "at the moment, the biggest factor on the mind of british sprinters is to be number one in britain," the world 200m and 400m record holder told five live. "athletics at the moment is all about international competitions and they need to show a little more pride." however, linford christie countered: "it's easy to criticise when you haven't gone through the system here." johnson was involved in a verbal spat with britain's darren campbell earlier this year. the american had cast doubt on campbell's claims he had torn a hamstring in the wake of his failure to reach the olympic 100m and 200m finals.  and the american remains highly critical of aspects of british sprinting. "the only time you see british sprinters getting upset or riled is when there is a debate as to which one is better than the other," he claimed. "athletes here have to compete more outside the uk. their focus has to be on being the best in the world and not just on being the top british sprinter." speaking at an elite coaches' conference in birmingham, johnson also argued that although there has been more investment in the sport in britain, it had not necessarily reaped the rewards. "you can't fix everything with money," he admitted. "you contrast the situation here to that of some us athletes who have no funding. "those who aren't funded might be hungrier and more motivated because their road to success is a lot more difficult and challenging. "so when they get to the top they are more appreciative." us woman sues over cartridges  a us woman is suing hewlett packard (hp), saying its printer ink cartridges are secretly programmed to expire on a certain date.  the unnamed woman from georgia says that a chip inside the cartridge tells the printer that it needs re-filling even when it does not. the lawsuit seeks to represent anyone in the us who has purchased an hp inkjet printer since february 2001. hp, the world's biggest printer firm, declined to comment on the lawsuit. hp ink cartridges use a chip technology to sense when they are low on ink and advise the user to make a change.  but the suit claims the chips also shut down the cartridges at a predetermined date regardless of whether they are empty. "the smart chip is dually engineered to prematurely register ink depletion and to render a cartridge unusable through the use of a built-in expiration date that is not revealed to the consumer," the suit said. the lawsuit is asking for restitution, damages and other compensation. the cost of printer cartridges has been a contentious issue in europe for the last 18 months. the price of inkjet printers has come down to as little as £34 but it could cost up to £1,700 in running costs over an 18-month period due to cartridge, a study by computeractive magazine revealed last year. the inkjet printer market has been the subject of an investigation by the uk's office of fair trading (oft), which concluded in a 2002 report that retailers and manufacturers needed to make pricing more transparent for consumers. deutsche telekom sees mobile gain  german telecoms firm deutsche telekom saw strong fourth quarter profits on the back of upbeat us mobile earnings and better-than-expected asset sales.  net profit came in at 1.4bn euros (£960m; $1.85bn), a dramatic change from the loss of 364m euros in 2003. sales rose 2.8% to 14.96bn euros. sales of stakes in firms including russia's oao mobile telesystems raised 1.17bn euros. this was more than expected and helped to bring debt down to 35.8bn euros.  a year ago, debt was more than 11bn euros higher. t-mobile usa, the company's american mobile business, made a strong contribution to profits. "it's a seminal achievement that they cut debt so low. that gives them some head room to invest in growth now," said hannes wittig, telecoms analyst at dresdner kleinwort wasserstein. the company also said it would resume paying a dividend, after two years in which it focused on cutting debt. stars gear up for bafta ceremony  film stars from across the globe are preparing to walk the red carpet at this year's bafta award ceremony.  the 2005 orange british academy film awards are being held at the odeon in london's leicester square. a host of hollywood stars, including cate blanchett, leonardo dicaprio, keanu reeves and richard gere, are expected to attend saturday's ceremony. hosted by stephen fry, the glittering ceremony will be broadcast on bbc one at 2010 gmt.  other actors expected to add to the glamour of the biggest night in uk film are gael garcia bernal, imelda staunton, diane kruger, christian slater, anjelica huston, helen mirren and former james bond star pierce brosnan. hollywood blockbuster the aviator, starring dicaprio, leads the field with 14 nominations, including best film.  it is up against eternal sunshine of the spotless mind, finding neverland, the motorcycle diaries and british film vera drake, which has 11 nominations. british hope imelda staunton is one of the favourites to land the best actress award for her gritty role as a backstreet abortionist in the small-budget film. other nominees in the best actress category include charlize theron for monster, ziyi zhang for house of flying daggers and uk star kate winslet, who has two nods for her roles in eternal sunshine of the spotless mind and finding neverland.  dicaprio faces competition from bernal, jamie foxx, jim carrey and johnny depp in the best actor category. and british actor clive owen is hoping to repeat his golden globe success with a best supporting actor award for his role in closer. his co-star natalie portman is up against blanchett, heather craney, julie cristie and meryl streep in the best supporting actress category. mike leigh is up for the best director award for vera drake, alongside martin scorsese for the aviator, michael mann for collateral, michel gondry for eternal sunshine of the spotless mind and marc forster for finding neverland. borders rail link campaign rally  campaigners are to stage a rally calling for a borders rail link which was closed in 1969 to be reopened.  they will mark the 36th anniversary of the line closure, which ran from edinburgh through the borders and on to carlisle, with a walk at tweedbank. anne borthwick, of campaign for borders rail, said reopening the waverley line would restore the area's prosperity. msps are considering the reintroduction of passenger rail services through midlothian to the borders. campaigners have said that reopening the waverley line, which could cost up to £100m, would be a huge economic boost for the borders.  in 2000, borders council said the area's economy had suffered since the closure. ms borthwick said the lobby group was determined to keep the pressure on the scottish executive. "we are hoping that many people will join us in a march to mark the 36th anniversary of the closure of the waverley line," she said. "campaign for borders rail is the biggest independent lobby group in scotland and we have been lobbying tirelessly for the reinstatement of rail services to the borders and eventually to carlisle.  "we believe that it is time for the scottish executive to commit to the first phase of the project by pledging to fund the line between edinburgh and tweedbank in the first instance and then investigate extending the line in the future." ms borthwick said reopening the line would be a prosperous move and protect the character of the scottish borders. a study in 2000, which was commissioned by the executive, scottish borders council, midlothian council and scottish borders enterprise, found that a half-hourly service from tweedbank to edinburgh could cover its operating costs. it also found that a half-hourly service from gorebridge to edinburgh could cover operating costs and that a freight railway joining the west coast main line at longtown could also be reinstated. radcliffe proves doubters wrong  this won't go down as one of the greatest marathons of paula's career. but as a test of character, it was the toughest race she's ever taken part in.  a win in the new york marathon doesn't make up for the disappointment of athens in any shape or form, but it will offer hope and reassurance for next year. if paula's last experience of the year had been athens, it would have been very difficult to look forward with any optimism. she can now draw a line under this year and make plans about her future. even if she'd lost this race, there would have been a lot of positives to take out of it. she knows she can dig deep if she needs to. it was a strong field, with a number of the girls going into the race with expectations of winning. and although two hours 23 minutes wasn't one of paula's best times, it wasn't far off the record on a difficult course.  i was speaking to paula in the lead-up to this race and she said that in many ways she was facing a no-win situation. she thought that if she won, people would say "why couldn't she do that in athens?" and if she lost, people would say her career was over. and a lot of people were wondering what would happen if paula was forced to drop out of this race, as she did in the marathon and 10,000m in athens. but that was never on the cards. she might have been beaten, but she would have kept running. the reasons she was forced to pull out in athens - the niggling injuries, her lack of energy and the oppressive conditions - weren't at play here. the only question was what position she could finish in. most important of all, despite all the hype in the media ahead of this race, there were never doubts in paula's mind. if she wasn't confident, she wouldn't have run. after all, if you're the best in the world at an event, you'll always have expectations of winning.  now paula will take part in the run london 10km race in london at the end of the year, have a well-earned rest over christmas and go into next year with a lot of optimism. movie body hits peer-to-peer nets  the movie industry has struck out at file-sharing networks with another round of lawsuits in the us.  the motion picture association of america (mpaa) also said it had succeeded in getting a network called lokitorrent closed down. it is the latest network which uses the peer-to-peer system called bittorrent to be hit by the mpaa. the mpaa began its legal campaign against operators of similar networks across four continents in december. a dallas court agreed that hollywood lawyers would be allowed access to lokitorrent's server records which could let them single out those who were sharing files illegally. in october 2004, the site had provided links to more than 30,000 files. the action came after the operators of lokitorrent agreed a settlement with the mpaa. a stark message has appeared on the site from the mpaa warning "you can click, but you can't hide". in bittorrent systems, server sites do not host the files being shared. they host links, called "trackers" that direct people to others that have it instead.  as well as filing an unspecified number of file suits across the us, the mpaa said it had given operators that host edonkey servers "take down" notices. hollywood studios are aggressively clamping down on file-sharers who it says infringe copyright laws by copying films and tv programmes then share the files online. but it is now targeting the operators of bittorrent networks themselves. it has filed 100 lawsuits against operators of bittorrent server sites since december. the strategy of hitting those who run the servers which link to copyrighted material is intended to stunt file-sharers' ability to swap content using bittorrent systems. the film industry says the black market for illegally copied videos and dvds already costs them billions every year and it is worried that illegal file-sharing is adding to their losses. in december, the legal action claimed its most high-profile victim. the popular suprnova.org website was forced to close, and others like phoenix torrent followed soon after. chinese wine tempts italy's illva  italy's illva saronno has agreed to buy 33% of changyu, the largest wine maker in china.  changyu said in a statement to the shenzhen stock exchange that illva will pay 481.42m yuan ($58.16m; £30.7m), once the government approves the deal. the italian liqueur maker will acquire the shares from the yantai state asset management bureau. chinese wine sales are growing, the us agriculture department said, with wine sales in 2003 up 25% at 61.1bn yuan.  china is encouraging state-owned companies to sell shares to foreign investors. anheuser-busch, heineken and scottish & newcastle have all invested in the chinese beer industry in the last two years and now illva saronno is betting on the chinese wine market. yantai state asset management bureau - a government agency in the north-eastern city of yantai - owns 55% of changyu. the state agency will also sell 10% of its stake in changyu to another overseas company, although it didn't say who. the remaining 12% will be retained by the yantai city government. the consumption of wine in china is still low, at just 0.22 litres per capita, said the us agriculture department. this compares with 59 litres in france, 12 litres in the us and three litres in japan. aviator 'creator' in oscars snub  the man who said he got oscar-nominated movie the aviator off the ground and signed up leonardo dicaprio has been shut out of the academy awards race.  charles evans jr battled over his role with the people who eventually made the film, and won a producer's credit. but he is not on the list of producers who can win a best film oscar due to a limit on the number of nominees. the oscars organisers have picked two of the aviator's four producers to be nominated for best film.  up to three producers can be named per film but the studios behind the aviator and million dollar baby failed to trim their credits - so the academy of motion pictures arts and sciences (ampas) has done it for them. the aviator's nominated producers are michael mann and graham king - with mr evans and sandy climan, mr mann's former deputy, left off. mr evans sued mr mann in 2001, claiming he came up with the idea, spent years developing it and persuaded dicaprio to play hughes - but said he was later excluded from the project. the two sides settled out of court in a deal that has remained secret apart from the fact mr evans' name has appeared as a producer when the film's credits roll. at the golden globes, mr evans - who was named among the winners when the film won best drama film - evaded a security guard to have his photo taken with dicaprio, director martin scorsese, mr mann and mr king.  ampas decided to limit the number of producers who could be nominated after shakespeare in love's victory in 1999 saw five producers collect awards. the eligible names for the aviator and million dollar baby were decided by ampas' producers branch executive committee on wednesday. the decision also saw clint eastwood get his third personal nomination for million dollar baby. he is now named in the best film category as well as being nominated for best director and best lead actor. the academy awards ceremony will be held in hollywood on 27 february. chinese actress ziyi zhang, star of crouching tiger, hidden dragon, hero and house of flying daggers, is the latest name to be added to the list of presenters on the night. 'hitler' row over welsh arts cash  an artist critical of welsh arts funding being brought under assembly government control has denied comparing the idea with dictatorships in russia and germany.  shani rhys james is worried that the arts council of wales may be taken over by the welsh assembly government. culture minister alun pugh said it would be "crass and ignorant" to liken a quango review to hitler's germany. but ms james emphasised she had actually said artists needed freedom. the future of the arts council of wales has been in question since it was announced that most welsh quangos would eventually be abolished.  it was announced last july that three welsh quangos, education and training body elwa, the wales tourist board and the welsh development agency, would be brought under assembly government control. the arts council of wales may be among the next to come under the assembly government's umbrella. but ms james, who won the £30,000 jerwood painting prize in 2003, said arts funding should be separate from government. ms james told bbc radio wales: "it's quite dangerous when you involve politicians because it's not like the health service and it's not like the railways. "free expression is absolutely vital in a democratic society. you need distance, you do not need government interference because it could be taken the wrong way."  but she said reports that she had likened the assembly government to totalitarian regimes were inaccurate.  she told good morning wales: "just to put the record straight, that business in the paper where it said i likened the government to bolshevik russia or hitler's germany, the actual quote i gave was: 'it is vital to a civilised society that we allow artists to express themselves without government control'. "as we know from past european history, i.e. russia and germany in the early 20th century, artists will go underground or leave the country or rather than compromise their expression'. "artists need a free voice to express themselves - they reflect a truth through their own art forms.'" she said the assembly government was not best placed to run the arts in wales.  she added: "it would be a momentous change and devastating to the arts. it would set the arts scene back 60 years, because i really don't think the government has the expertise. "if you have the national assembly taking control, i fear you are going to be going back to the dragons and leeks and the choirs.  "wales has moved on. it is international now. it is not set back in how green was my valley?" responding to ms james' criticisms, mr pugh said: "the structure of unelected quangos is under review and we have made it clear that further announcements are due shortly. "comparing the welsh assembly government to hitler's germany is a crass and ignorant response to a real issue about democratic accountability." ms james, whose father was welsh, was born in melbourne where her parents worked in the theatre. she moved to powys nearly 20 years ago where she works from her studio near llangadfan. she has won a number of arts prizes including the wales open in 1989 and the mostyn open in 1991. jones medals 'must go if guilty'  world anti-doping agency (wada) chief dick pound says marion jones should be stripped of all her medals if found guilty of taking banned substances.  victor conte, of balco laboratories, claims the american sprinter regularly used drugs to enhance her performance. "if she is found guilty she should be stripped of all her medals and banned for two years," said pound. asked if there was a timescale as to what medals could be taken, pound said: "that is not an issue at all." however, under international olympic committee (ioc) rules, athletes can only be stripped of their medals if caught within three years of the event. jones, who won five medals at the 2000 olympics, denies using drugs and says she will take legal action over conte's allegations. balco laboratories is the firm at the centre of a wide-reaching investigation into doping in the us. pound continued: "if she has indeed taken drugs it is going to be a big disappointment for a lot of people." security warning over 'fbi virus'  the us federal bureau of investigation is warning that a computer virus is being spread via e-mails that purport to be from the fbi.  the e-mails show that they have come from an fbi.gov address and tell recipients that they have accessed illegal websites. the messages warn that their internet use has been monitored by the fbi's internet fraud complaint center. an attachment in the e-mail contains the virus, the fbi said. the message asks recipients to click on the attachment and answer some questions about their internet use. but rather than being a questionnaire, the attachment contains a virus that infects the recipient's computer, according to the agency. it is not clear what the virus does once it has infected a computer. users are warned never to open attachment from unsolicited e-mails or from people they do not know.  "recipients of this or similar solicitations should know that the fbi does not engage in the practice of sending unsolicited e-mails to the public in this manner," the fbi said in a statement. the bureau is investigating the phoney e-mails. the agency earlier this month shut down fbi.gov accounts, used to communicate with the public, because of a security breach. a spokeswoman said the two incidents appear to be unrelated. umbro profits lifted by euro 2004  uk sportswear firm umbro has posted a 222% rise in annual profit after sales of replica england football kits were boosted by the euro 2004 tournament.  pre-tax profit for 2004 was £15.4m ($29.4m). umbro, which recently lost sponsorship deals with chelsea and celtic, said on thursday it had signed a new four-year agreement with scottish club rangers. it hopes 2005 sales will benefit from the launch of a new england replica shirt ahead of the 2006 world cup. in january, umbro announced its sponsorship agreement with chelsea, which gave umbro the lucrative right to make replica shirts, would end in 2006, five years earlier than expected. the firm, which is to receive a payment from chelsea of £24.5m, said it is "appraising a number of additional investment opportunities as a result of this compensation" . chief executive peter mcguigan said the firm plans to grow sales both in the uk and internationally.  the firm, reporting its first annual results since listing on the london stock exchange in june, said the uk market had seen sales growth of 8% last year. it said the launch of its evolution x fashion range had boosted sales. umbro supplies more than 150 teams across the world including the national sides of ireland, sweden and norway. shares in umbro were up 1.76% at 115.5 pence in morning trade. wine comedy up for six film gongs  sideways, a wine-tasting comedy starring paul giamatti, is up for six independent spirit awards, the art-house version of the oscars.  the awards are held on 26 february, the day before the oscars. spanish drama maria full of grace, about a colombian woman who becomes a drug courier, got five nominations. controversial biopic kinsey, starring liam neeson as sex researcher alfred kinsey, was one of four films to get four nominations. the awards, now in their 20th year, honour quirky low-budget films, all of which must have a degree of independent financing. sideways is written and directed by alexander payne, who directed the 2002 hit about schmidt, winning jack nicholson his 12th academy award nomination.  "these awards, for better or worse, mean everything," said sideways producer michael london, adding they were a "huge first step" toward getting recognition from other awards. among the other films receiving four nominations apiece were brother to brother, a drama about a young gay black man forced to live on the streets, robbing peter and primer. primer, a $7,000 (£3,650) tale of discovery, won top prize at the sundance film festival earlier this year. walter salles critically acclaimed the motorcycle diaries and the forthcoming thriller the woodsman, starring kevin bacon, received three nominations each. also in the running, with two nominations, are high school comedy napoleon dynamite, the door in the floor and garden state - written, directed and starring scrubs star zach braff alongside natalie portman. the awards were announced by actors selma blair and dennis quaid in los angeles on tuesday. lords wrong on detainees - straw  jack straw has attacked the decision by britain's highest court that detaining foreign terrorist suspects without trial breaks human rights laws.  the foreign secretary said the right to life was the "most important liberty" and the government had a duty to protect people from terrorism. law lords were "simply wrong" to imply the men were being held arbitrarily. new home secretary charles clarke vowed the nine men would remain in prison while the law was being reviewed.  the house of lords ruled by an eight to one majority in favour of appeals by the men - dealing a major blow to the government's anti-terror policy.  but mr straw denied it amounted to a "constitutional crisis". he said those held had a right of appeal to the special immigration appeal tribunal and the decision to hold the suspects was upheld by that court. "the law lords are simply wrong to imply that this is a decision to detain these people on the whim or the certificate of the home secretary," he told bbc radio 4's today programme. the foreign secretary insisted it was for parliament, and not judges, to decide how best britain could be defended against the threat of terrorism. but liberal democrat peer lord carlile, the government's independent reviewer of anti-terrorism laws, said it was possible some of the detainees could now be released. he said the law lords' ruling was an "embarrassment" for the government and major changes were needed to the law.  the ruling came on charles clarke's first day as home secretary following david blunkett's resignation. in a statement to mps, mr clarke said: "i will be asking parliament to renew this legislation in the new year.  "in the meantime, we will be studying the judgment carefully to see whether it is possible to modify our legislation to address the concerns raised by the house of lords." the detainees took their case to the house of lords after the court of appeal backed the home office's powers to hold them without limit or charge. the government opted out of part of the european convention on human rights concerning the right to a fair trial in order to bring in anti-terrorism legislation in response to the 11 september attacks in the us. any foreign national suspected of links with terrorism can be detained or can opt to be deported. but those detained cannot be deported if this would mean persecution in their homeland. on thursday, lord bingham - a senior law lord - said the rules were incompatible with the european convention on human rights as they allowed detentions "in a way that discriminates on the ground of nationality or immigration status" by justifying detention without trial for foreign suspects, but not britons. lord nicholls of birkenhead, in his ruling, said: "indefinite imprisonment without charge or trial is anathema in any country which observes the rule of law.  in a statement, detainee 'a' in woodhill prison said: "i hope now that the government will act upon this decision, scrap this illegal 'law' and release me and the other internees to return to our families and loved ones." the case was heard by a panel of nine law lords rather than the usual five because of the constitutional importance of the case. solicitor gareth pierce, who represents eight of the detainees, claimed the detention had driven four of the detainees to "madness", saying two were being held in broadmoor hospital. radcliffe tackles marathon tasks  paula radcliffe faces arguably the biggest test of her career in the new york city marathon on sunday.  back under the spotlight of public scrutiny she will attempt to erase the double disappointment of the athens olympics, where she failed to finish the marathon and then the 10,000m. bbc sport examines the challenges facing radcliffe ahead of the big race.   the ability to run a gruelling 26.2 miles relies largely upon an athlete's belief that they can do it. every runner will hit the wall at some stage and see written on it, "are you strong enough to finish?"  the question could hit radcliffe hard after she was unable to complete her last two races in high-profile and emotional circumstances. sports psychologist hugh richards says the 30-year-old must draw on her past achievements to conquer a potential crisis of confidence. "there is an old adage, 'get straight back on the horse that threw you,'" richards told bbc sport. "paula has got all those great runs in her history as well as the two upsets in athens. "she must not lose faith in what has already been proven is a very effective strategy for distance running. "if she were to change her preparation and tactics that would be madness. "she wants to start rebuilding her confidence through performance accomplishment."   for much of the watching media and public there can only be two possible outcomes in new york - win or lose. if radcliffe crosses the line first she will have proved her critics wrong. but if she fails to triumph, she risks being labelled a has-been and her profile will suffer. and for any athlete that can have repercussions in terms of sponsorship, appearance fees as well as further self esteem issues.  "athletes need to try and stay focused on their internal controls and ignore external questions," explains richards, who has worked with past olympians. "she must not get caught up in someone else's agenda." radcliffe's best friend and fellow distance runner liz yelling revealed the 30-year-old is already aware she will be exposing herself to more public scrutiny in new york. "she just thought, 'well, they can't think any worse of me now,'" yelling told bbc sport. "she's just doing what she wants to do and not thinking about the consequences of it."   radcliffe described her decision to enter the new york marathon as "impulsive" but she is certain to have a tick-list of personal goals. her aims could be as simple as completing a race and making sure she is still enjoying running but richards says she must avoid more emotional targets, such as redemption. "you can't change history," warned richards. "only one person can win the marathon but lots of people can be successful. "paula has to figure out what sort of things will she feel satisfied achieving by the end of the race."   the course from staten island to central park is renowned as one of the toughest in the world. it is also not the kind of fast course that tends to suit radcliffe better, with the undulating finish through the park testing the legs' final reserves.  radcliffe has never raced there before and will enter the unknown just 77 days after the athens marathon. "it's suggested after a major marathon you take a full month off and start building up again," said yelling, herself a marathon runner. "but that is only for long-term health and fitness. "when you finish a marathon you are still very fit and can recover quickly. so physically it is possible for paula." richards also points out conditions in new york will be more conducive to a strong physical display from radcliffe. "the heat stress was the primary factor that tripped her up in athens," he said. "and that just isn't going to be there in new york, that's been taken out of the equation."     radcliffe concedes she will probably learn a lot from her bad experiences in athens in time. and richards and yelling agree she could turn the trauma to her advantage, starting in new york. "how you respond to adversity is what marks you out as elite or not," argues richards.  "one of the challenges of massive set backs is how you turn them into opportunities." and yelling says: "i think this will probably make paula." "i think it will drive her on and she'll come out of it a better athlete." apple ipod family expands market  apple has expanded its ipod family with the release of its next generation of the digital music players.  its latest challenges to the growing digital music gadget market include an ipod mini model which can hold 6gb compared to a previous 4gb. the company, which hopes to keep its dominant place in the digital music market, also said the gold coloured version of the mini would be dropped. a 30gb version has also been added to the ipod photo family. the latest models have a longer battery life and their prices have been cut by an average of £40. the original ipod took an early lead in the digital music player market thanks to its large storage capacity and simple design.  during 2004 about 25 million portable players were sold, 10 million of which were apple ipods. but analysts agree that the success is also down to its integration with the itunes online store, which has given the company a 70% share of the legal download music market. mike mcguire, a research director at analyst gartner, told the bbc news website that apple had done a good job in "sealing off the market from competition" so far. "they have created a very seamless package which i think is the idea of the product - the design, function and the software are very impressive," he said. he added that the threat from others was always present, however. "creative, other microsoft-partnered devices, real, sony and so on, are ratcheting up the marketing message and advertising," he said. creative was very upbeat about how many of its creative zen players it had shipped by the end of last year, he said. its second-generation models, like the creative zen micro photo, is due out in the summer. it will have 5gb of memory on board.  digital music players are now the gadget of choice among young americans, according to recent research by the pew internet and american life project. one in 10 us adults - 22 million people - now owns a digital music player of some sort. sales of legally downloaded songs also rose more than tenfold in 2004, according to the record industry, with 200 million tracks bought online in the us and europe in 12 months. the ifpi industry body said that the popularity of portable music players was behind the growth. analysts say that the ease of use and growth of music services available on the net will continue to drive the trend towards portable music players.  people are also starting to use them in novel ways. some are combining automatic syncing functions many of them have with other net functions to automatically distribute diy radio shows, called podcasts. but 2005 will also see more competition from mobile phone operators who are keen to offer streaming services on much more powerful and sophisticated handsets. according to mr mcguire, research suggests that people like the idea of building up huge libraries of music, which they can do with high-capacity storage devices, like ipods and creative zens. mobiles do not yet have this capacity though, and there are issues about the ease of portability of mobile music. mr mcguire said apple was ensuring it kept a foot in the mobile music door with its recent deal with motorola to produce a version of itunes for motorola phones. fed chief warning on us deficit  federal reserve chairman alan greenspan has warned that allowing huge us budget deficits to continue could have "severe" consequences.  speaking to the house budget committee he urged congress to take action to cut the deficit, such as increasing taxes. while the us economy is growing at a "reasonably good pace" he warned that budget concerns were clouding the economic outlook for the us. pension and healthcare costs posed the greatest risks to the economy, he said.  the government program faces severe financial strains in coming decades as the massive baby-boom generation retires. "i fear that we may have already committed more physical resources to the baby-boom generation in its retirement years than our economy has the capacity to deliver. if existing promises need to be changed, those changes should be made sooner rather than later," mr greenspan said. he also warned that unless the nation sees unprecedented rises in productivity "retirement and health programmes would need "significant" changes. he called on congress to cut promised benefits for retirees, as the promised benefits for the soon-to-retire baby boom generation were much larger than the government could afford.  meanwhile any move to narrow the deficit gap by raising taxes could pose a significant risk to the economy by dampening growth and spending, he added. he also urged congress to reinstate lapsed rules that require tax cuts and spending to be offset elsewhere in the budget in an effort to prevent the us heading further into the red. despite the dire warnings, mr greenspan did offer some good news for the short term. as us growth gathers steam and incomes rise that should lead to a narrowing of the deficit. recent increases in defence and homeland security spending were also not expected to continue indefinitely, which should cut some costs. since president george w bush came to office the federal budget has swung from a record surplus to a record deficit of $412bn last year. no ads for passion oscar campaign  producer mel gibson will not be using paid advertisements to promote the passion of the christ to voters in next year's academy awards.  gibson and his icon productions partner bruce davey said they would not be campaigning in print, radio or tv for success at the oscars in february. "this film should be judged on its artistic merit, not who spends more money on advertising," davey said. but dvds will be sent to oscar voters, who will be invited to screenings. icon spent very little on advertising the film, which deals with the last hours of jesus christ's life, when it was released earlier this year - instead, it made the film available for special screenings at churches. it went on to gross over $600m (£322m) in ticket sales worldwide. over recent years, marketing films to the members of the academy of motion picture arts and sciences has become a multi-million dollar industry. last year, the academy formed a committee to tighten the rules after the campaigns spilled over into personal attacks between studios. academy president frank pierson praised gibson's move for working to restore the oscars as a "celebration and appreciation of excellence," and resisting the "crass commercialisation that was threatening the integrity of the award". profile: david blunkett  before he resigned the position of home secretary on wednesday, david blunkett had been in charge of a substantial body of government portfolios including race, policing and immigration.  his responsibilities in running the home office included civil emergencies, security, terrorism and expenditure. named home secretary after the 2001 general election, mr blunkett had seen the focus on his office intensify. the attacks on the world trade center on 11 september 2001 heightened concern for security and immigration in particular. a labour loyalist from a working class background mr blunkett, 57, had been unafraid of pushing for tough changes to labour policy.  recently the issue of identity cards had provoked controversy with questions raised over cost and invasions of civil liberties. mr blunkett was also at the centre of a humiliating scandal involving the former immigration minister beverly hughes. having received his full backing, ms hughes was forced to resign in april over abuses in the visa processing system, which she claimed to be unaware of. mr blunkett's own comments on immigration had prompted censure - he told refugees from afghanistan and kosovo to "get back home" to start rebuilding their countries. and he also urged people from ethnic minorities to develop a "sense of belonging" in britain, telling them to speak english at home. avoiding political correctness is second nature to the former home secretary, who spurns a metropolitan elite and "airy fairy libertarians" and earlier in the year coined the phrase "liberati", as an amalgam of "glitterati" and "liberal". yet in january of this year he courted further controversy over his seemingly liberal reclassification of cannabis, from a grade b to grade c status drug .  before the recent furore, mr blunkett had always appeared more interested in politics than his personal life. mr blunkett told the daily telegraph in 2001 that he continued to wear his wedding ring, in spite of being a divorcee, as "a useful way of ensuring that people don't casually think i am available". he added: "i am not available because i am just getting on with the job." mr blunkett entered parliament for sheffield brightside in 1987, after first contesting the sheffield hallam seat in 1974. he is one of very few blind mps, and was the first to reach the front bench and the cabinet. his relaxed performances - with his guide dog by his side - at the despatch box, in the labour party's national executive, and on the conference platform made it easy to forget his disability. mr blunkett himself described not being able to see as simply "an inconvenience". using braille for speeches, and briefed by his officials on tape, he also has a sharp tongue at times, and a pragmatic approach to politics.  mr blunkett was schooled in sheffield where he led the city council for seven years before entering the commons. he chaired the labour party nationally, and was a unifying force in the 80s and 90s, shadowing health and education. in tony blair's first government mr blunkett was put in charge of education and employment, where he won big increases in funds for schools, while insisting on improved standards of literacy and numeracy. he was prepared to stand up to the teaching unions - which sometimes heckled his speeches - and his policy of charging university students for tuition fees was not popular. in the labour party he has been regarded as a loyal colleague, a conciliator who avoids factions, and a man whose humour and determination make him widely popular. there have been wry smiles as well. in 1999, his then guide dog lucy threw up in the chamber during the speech of his tory opponent. lucy was replaced by her half-sister, sadie, a black labrador-curly-coated retriever cross, in 2003 after nearly a decade by mr blunkett's side. gatlin and hayes win owen awards  american olympic stars justin gatlin and joanna hayes have been named the winners of the 2004 jesse owens awards, usa track & field's (usatf) top honour.  gatlin, 22, won the closest 100m final in games history with a career-best time of 9.85 seconds in athens. he also won bronze in the 200m and silver in the 4x100m relay, becoming the only male athlete to win three athletics medals this summer. hayes, 27, set an olympic record of 12.37 in winning the 100m hurdles. established in 1981, the jesse owens awards - named in honour of the late olympic great who won four gold medals at the 1936 berlin games - are presented annually to the outstanding us male and female track and field performers.  the 2004 awards will be presented on 3 december in conjunction with the usatf annual meeting in portland. "it is such a great honour to win the jesse owens award," said gatlin. "it is one of the biggest honours in track and field and it is a great end to a great year. " hayes said: "knowing some of the great people who have won this award before me and knowing what it represents, i feel a sense accomplishment and pride which lets me know that everything that i have worked for is and always will be worth it." t-mobile bets on 'pocket office'  t-mobile has launched its latest "pocket office" third-generation (3g) device which also has built-in wi-fi - high-speed wireless net access.  unlike other devices where the user has to check which high-speed network is available to transfer data, the device selects the fastest one itself. the mda iv, released in the summer, is an upgrade to the company's existing smartphone, the 2.5g/wi-fi mda iii. it reflects the push by mobile firms for devices that are like mini laptops. the device has a display that can be swivelled and angled so it can be used like a small computer, or as a conventional clamshell phone. the microsoft mobile phone, with two cameras and a qwerty keyboard, reflects the design of similar all-in-one models released this year, such as motorola's mpx. "one in five european workers are already mobile - meaning they spend significant time travelling and out of the office," rene obermann, t-mobile's chief executive, told a press conference at the 3gsm trade show in cannes. he added: "what they need is their office when they are out of the office." t-mobile said it was seeing increasing take up for what it calls "office in a pocket" devices, with 100,000 mdas sold in europe already.  in response to demand, t-mobile also said it would be adding the latest phone-shaped blackberry to its mobile range. reflecting the growing need to be connected outside the office, it announced it would introduce a flat-fee £20 ($38) a month wi-fi tariff for people in the uk using its wi-fi hotspots. it said it would nearly double the number of its hotspots - places where wi-fi access is available - globally from 12,300 to 20,000.  it also announced it was installing high-speed wi-fi on certain train services, such as the uk's london to brighton service, to provide commuters a fast net connection too. the service, which has been developed with southern trains, nomad digital (who provide the technology), begins with a free trial on 16 trains on the route from early march to the end of april. a full service is set to follow in the summer. wi-fi access points will be connected to a wimax wireless network - faster than wi-fi - running alongside the train tracks. brian mcbride, managing director of t-mobile in the uk, said: "we see a growing trend for business users needing to access e-mail securely on the move.  "we are able to offer this by maintaining a constant data session for the entire journey." he said this was something other similar in-train wi-fi services, such as that offered on gner trains, did not offer yet. mr obermann added that the mobile industry in general was still growing, with many more opportunities for more services which would bear fruit for mobile companies in future. thousands of mobile industry experts are gathered in cannes, france, for the 3gsm which runs from 14 to 17 february. uk coal plunges into deeper loss  shares in uk coal have fallen after the mining group reported losses had deepened to £51.6m in 2004 from £1.2m.  the uk's biggest coal producer blamed geological problems, industrial action and "operating flaws" at its deep mines for its worsening fortunes. the south yorkshire company, led by new chief executive gerry spindler, said it hoped to return to profit in 2006. in early trade on thursday, its shares were down 10% at 119 pence. uk coal said it was making "significant progress" in shaking up the business. it had introduced new wage structures, a new daily maintenance regime for machinery at its mines and methods to continue mining in adverse conditions. the company said these actions should "significantly uplift earnings". it expected 2005 to be a "transitional year" and to return to profitability in 2006.  the recent rise in coal prices has failed to benefit the company as most of its output had already been sold, it said. total production costs were £1.30 per gigajoule, uk coal said, but the average selling price was just £1.18 per gigajoule. "we have a long journey ahead to fix these issues. we continue to make progress and great strides have already been made," said mr spindler. uk coal operates 15 deep and surface mines across nottinghamshire, derbyshire, leicestershire, yorkshire, the west midlands, northumberland and durham. berlin honours s korean director  south korean film director im kwon-taek has received an honorary golden bear at the berlin film festival.  im, who has made more than 100 films in a 40-year career, was hailed for his "remarkable visual beauty, technical innovation, and intellectual depth". twenty of his films are screening in a special retrospective during the festival, which runs until 20 february. the veteran film-maker, 68, won the best director prize at the cannes film festival in 2002 for chihwaseon. "although his films vary in style, they all bear his unmistakable stamp: they are forceful and charged cinematographically, as well as reticent, stylised and musical," organisers said in a statement. meanwhile, a film version of bizet's opera carmen - translated into the south african language xhosa - has received a warm reception at the festival. u-carmen ekhayelitsha (carmen in khayelitsha), which is one of 21 films up for berlin's top prize, the golden bear, is british director mark dornford-may's first feature film. "it's the first time any opera has been translated into a black south african language. xhosa works brilliantly, it's such a musical language," said music director charles hazlewood. strike threat over pension plans  millions of public service workers could strike if ministers scrap their final salary pension scheme and make them work longer, warn union leaders.  the cabinet office has confirmed it is reviewing the current pension system, prompting unions representing 4.5m workers to threaten united action. they believe the plans include raising the mandatory retirement age for public service workers from 60 to 65. the government says unions will be consulted before any changes are made.  it is thought the proposed overhaul, due on thursday, could mean pensions could be based on a "career average" salary. for each year served, staff currently get one eightieth of their highest salary in the final three years. ministers will be anxious to avoid mass strike action in the lead-up to the next general election, which is widely expected next may. in a statement on sunday, the cabinet office said it was reviewing the civil service pension scheme, and hoped to announce proposals soon. "unions will of course be consulted about any proposed changes. "public sector pension schemes need to remain affordable and sustainable. people are living longer and pensions are getting more expensive. "to maintain the long-term affordability of our pension scheme, the government announced in its green paper on pensions that pension age would rise from 60 to 65." on monday, tony blair's official spokesman declined to say whether the prime minister backed the plans. he said: "what's important is that there's a process going on, it's out for consultation at the moment, let's wait for that process to complete itself."  there is already widespread anger over the chancellor's plans to get rid of more than 100,000 civil servants. now public service unions are united against the plans and the trades union congress is discussing the issue next monday. dave prentis, general secretary of unison, said changes to pension provisions for workers in the public sector would mean they had to pay in more but would still face a raw deal. "members working in the nhs or for local government have never had high pay or city bonuses, but they could look forward to a decent pension - now all that is being taken away," he said. "what really riles me is the breathtaking hypocrisy of mps who recently voted themselves the best pension scheme in europe, but say they can't afford it for anyone else. "this is a position that unison cannot accept and will oppose. it will lead to conflict between unison and the government, if not this year then next."  mr prentis said workers did not want to go on strike and called for talks between unions and the highest level of government. mark serwotka, from the public and commercial services union said there should be a co-ordinated one day strike unless there was a government rethink. the fire brigades union said the government was planning to cut ill health retirement benefits for firefighters and other measures to chip away at pensions. pensions officer paul woolstenholmes said: "the pensions of millions of public sector workers are under threat - apart from mps and judges who have the most generous pensions arrangements in the country." radcliffe enjoys winning comeback  paula radcliffe made a triumphant return to competitive running with victory in the new york marathon.  the briton, running for the first time since dropping out of the olympic marathon and 10,000m, held off kenyan susan chepkemei in a thrilling finish. the pair were locked together for the last few miles before radcliffe finally sprinted clear to win in two hours, 23 minutes and 10 seconds. "it's a good way to end the year," she said. "i'm ready for a good rest now." radcliffe decided only recently to run in the race and many had doubted whether she had sufficiently recovered from her olympic ordeal just 11 weeks ago. but the world record-holder was prominent at the head of the field for the whole race as her rivals slowly dropped off the pace. just chepkemei and radcliffe were left in contention as the race came into the final few miles. the kenyan put in several bursts of speed to throw off radcliffe but the briton managed to hang in. both runners looked to be suffering as they reached the final mile in central park. but it was radcliffe who managed to dredge up a final sprint to see off chepkemei in the closest finish in the race's history and in the process make a huge step in erasing the disappointment she suffered in athens.   hotspot users gain free net calls  people using wireless net hotspots will soon be able to make free phone calls as well as surf the net.  wireless provider broadreach and net telephony firm skype are rolling out a service at 350 hotspots around the uk this week. users will need a skype account - downloadable for free - and they will then be able to make net calls via wi-fi without paying for net access. skype allows people to make free pc-based calls to other skype users.  users of the system can also make calls to landlines and mobiles for a fee. the system is gaining in popularity and now has 28 million users around the world. its paid service - dubbed skype out - has so far attracted 940,000 users. it plans to add more paid services with forthcoming launches of video conferencing, voice mail and skype in, a service which would allow users to receive phone calls from landlines and mobiles. london-based software developer connectotel has unveiled software that will expand the sms functions of skype, allowing users to send text messages to mobile phones from the service. broadreach networks has around two million users and hotspots in places such as virgin megastores, the travelodge chain of hotels and all london's major rail terminals. the company is due to launch wi-fi on virgin trains later in the year. "skype's success at spreading the world about internet telephony is well-known and we are delighted to be offering free access to skype users in our hotspots," commented broadreach chief executive magnus mcewen-king. saudi ministry to employ women  women will be employed in saudi arabia's foreign ministry for the first time this year, foreign minister prince saud al-faisal has been reported as saying.  the move comes as the conservative country inches open the door to working women. last year, crown prince abdullah, the de-facto ruler, told government departments to put plans in place for employing women. but progress has been slow, reports from the country say.  earlier this week, the local arab news said labour minister ghazi al-gosaibi had "caused uproar" when he said his ministry was having difficulty hiring women because they demanded segregated offices. the newspaper said many saudi women found his explanation "a pitiful excuse for not employing women". women now make up more than half of all graduates from saudi universities but only 5% of the workforce. "our educational reforms have created a new generation of highly-educated and professionally trained saudi women who are acquiring their rightful position in saudi society," arab news quoted prince saud as saying. "i am proud to mention here that this year we shall have women working in the ministry of foreign affairs for the first time." stars pay tribute to actor davis  hollywood stars including spike lee, burt reynolds and oscar nominee alan alda have paid tribute to actor ossie davis at a funeral in new york.  veteran star ossie davis, a well-known civil rights activist, died in miami at the age of 87 on 4 february 2005. friends and family, including actress ruby dee his wife of 56 years, gathered at the riverside church on saturday. also present at the service was former us president bill clinton and singer harry belafonte, who gave the eulogy. "he would have been a very good president of the united states," said mr clinton. "like most of you here, he gave more to me than i gave to him."  the 87-year-old was found dead last weekend in his hotel room in florida, where he was making a film. police said that he appeared to have died of natural causes. davis made his acting debut in 1950 in no way out starring sidney poiter. he frequently collaborated with director spike lee, starring in seven lee films including jungle fever, do the right thing and malcolm x. attallah shabazz, the daughter of activist malcolm x, recalled the famous eulogy delivered by davis at her father's funeral. "harlem has come to bid farewell to one of its finest hopes," she said, quoting the man she knew as uncle ossie. "ditto." "ossie was my hero, and he still is," said aviator star alan alda, a family friend for over forty years. "ossie was a thing of beauty."  "i want so badly someday to have his dignity - a little of it anyway," added burt reynolds, davis's co-star in the 90s tv comedy evening shade. before the midday funeral, scores of harlem residents formed a queue outside the church to pay their respects to davis. "it is hard to fathom that we will no longer be able to call on his wisdom, his humour, his loyalty and his moral strength to guide us in the choices that are yet to be made and the battles that are yet to be fought," said belafonte, himself an ardent civil rights activist who had been friends with davis for over 60 years. "but how fortunate we were to have him as long as we did." parties warned over 'grey vote'  political parties cannot afford to take older uk voters for granted in the coming election, says age concern.  a survey for the charity suggests 69% of over-55s say they always vote in a general election compared with just 17% of 18 to 24 year olds. charity boss gordon lishman said if a "decisive blow" was struck at the election it would be by older voters who could be relied on to turn out. a total of 3,028 adults aged 18 or over were interviewed for the study. mr lishman urged the next government to boost state pension.  he also called for measures to combat ageism and build effective public services to "support us all in an ageing society". "older people want to see manifesto commitments that will make a difference to their lives," mr lishman said. "political parties must wake up to the fact that unless they address the demands and concerns of older people they will not keep or attract their vote." in the survey carried out by icm research, 14% of people aged between 18 and 34 said they never voted in general elections. among the over-65s, 70% said they would be certain to vote in an immediate election, compared with 39% of people under 55. age concern says the over-55s are "united around" key areas of policy they want the government to focus on. for 57%, pensions and the nhs were key issues, while the economy was important for a third, and tax was a crucial area for 25%. collins named uk athletics chief  uk athletics has ended its search for a new performance director by appointing psychologist dave collins.  collins, who worked with the british teams at the 2000 and 2004 olympics, takes over from max jones. six candidates were interviewed for the job, including denise lewis' coach charles van commenee and former british triple jumper keith connor. "we've searched long and hard to ensure we have found the right person," said uka chief executive david moorcroft. "we have thoroughly tested the candidates. i believe david will make a great leader and i have great faith in what he will achieve." collins said: "it's a great challenge. over the next few months i will spend time listening to those who already make a significant contribution to athletics and other elite sports in the uk." collins, who has worked with javelin thrower steve backley in the past, started his career as a royal marine before becoming a pe teacher. he is currently professor of physical education and sport performance at edinburgh university, where he helps competitors across many sports, including rugby, athletics, judo and football.  he has specialised in helping competitors fulfil their potential through psychology and has worked with the great britain women's curling team, who won gold at the 2002 winter olympics. mark lewis-francis sought collins' advice in athens when he was looking for inspiration before he ran the final leg of britain's surprise triumph in the 4x100m relay. collins has played rugby at regional level, was captain of the great britain american football team, and competed at national level in judo and karate. he arrives with british athletics at a crossroads. despite kelly holmes' golden double and the success of the sprint relay squad, the gb team failed to live up to expectations in athens. many older competitors have retired or are coming to the end of their careers, and britain failed to win a single medal at the world junior championships in italy this year. collins will not have day-to-day coaching contact with the athletes, but will be expected to make changes to the system and coaching set-up in order to secure medals at the beijing olympics in 2008. the appointment of a new performance director was one of the main recommendations in sir andrew foster's review of the sport, which was published in may. it was commissioned by uk sport and sport england, which wanted uk athletics to justify funding of more than £40m from the government following the failure to hang on to the 2005 world championships, which are now being held in helsinki. van commenee dropped out of the selection process to take on the same role with the dutch olympic committee, while connor's application was rejected after an arduous interview process. foster, however, declared himself satisfied with how the appointment was made. "the appointment of david collins, with his strong mix of leadership skills and managerial experience, is testament to the professional and detailed recruitment process," he said. dvd copy protection strengthened  dvds will be harder to copy thanks to new anti-piracy measures devised by copy protection firm macrovision.  the pirated dvd market is enormous because current copy protection was hacked more than five years ago. macrovision says its new ripguard technology will thwart most, but not all, of the current dvd ripping (copying) programs used to pirate dvds. "ripguard is designed to... reduce dvd ripping and the resulting supply of illegal peer to peer," said the firm. macrovision said the new technology will work in "nearly all" current dvd players when applied to the discs, but it did not specify how many machines could have a problem with ripguard. the new technology will be welcomed by hollywood film studios which are increasingly relying on revenue from dvd sales.  the film industry has stepped up efforts to fight dvd piracy in the last 12 months, taking legal action against websites which offer pirated copies of dvd movies for download.  "ultimately, we see ripguard dvd... evolving beyond anti-piracy, and towards enablement of legitimate online transactions, interoperability in tomorrow's digital home, and the upcoming high-definition formats," said steve weinstein, executive vice president and general manager of macrovision's entertainment technologies group. macrovision said ripguard was designed to plug the "digital hole" that was created by so-called decss ripper software. it circumvents content scrambling system measures placed on dvds and let people make perfect digital copies of copyrighted dvds in minutes. those copies could then be burned onto a blank dvd or uploaded for exchange to a peer-to-peer network. macrovision said ripguard would also prevent against "rent, rip and return" - where people would rent a dvd, copy it and then return the original. ripguard is expected to be rolled out on dvds from the middle of 2005, the company said. the new system works specifically to block most ripping programs - if used, those programs will now most likely crash, the company said. macrovision has said that rip guard can be updated if hackers find a way around the new anti-copying measures. japan economy slides to recession  the japanese economy has officially gone back into recession for the fourth time in a decade.  gross domestic product fell by 0.1% in the last three months of 2004. the fall reflects weak exports and a slowdown in consumer spending, and follows similar falls in gdp in the two previous quarters. the tokyo stock market fell after the figures were announced, but rose again on a widespread perception that the economy will recover later this year. on wednesday, the government revised growth figures from earlier in 2004 which, when taking into account performance in the most recent period, effectively tips japan into recession.  a previous estimate of 0.1% growth between july and september was downgraded to a 0.3% decline. a recession is commonly defined as two consecutive quarters of negative growth, although the japanese government takes other factors into account when judging the status of its economy.  figures released by the government's cabinet office showed that gdp, on an annualised basis, fell 0.5% in the last three months of 2004. however, politicians remain upbeat about prospects for an economic boost later in the year. "the economy has some soft patches but if you look at the bigger picture, it is in a recovery stage," said economic and fiscal policy minister heizo takenaka. gross domestic product measures the overall value of goods and services produced in a country. "the economy must be assessed comprehensively and we cannot look at gdp alone," mr takenaka stressed.  ministers pointed to the fact that consumer spending had been depressed by one-off factors such as the unseasonably mild winter. analysts said the figures were disappointing but argued that japan's largest companies had been recording healthy profits and capital spending was on the rise. japan's economy grew 2.6% overall last year - fuelled by a strong performance in the first few months - and is forecast to see growth of 2.1% in 2005. however, the economy's fragile recovery remains dependent on an upturn in consumer spending, a fall in the value of the yen and an improvement in global economies. "the results came in at the lower end of expectations but we shouldn't be too pessimistic about the current state and the outlook for the economy," said naoki iizuka, senior economist at the dai-ichi life research institute. japan's economy has seen stretches of moderate growth over the past decade but has periodically slipped back into recession. us actor ossie davis found dead  us actor ossie davis has been found dead at the age of 87.  davis, who was married to actress ruby dee, was found dead on friday in his hotel room in miami beach, florida, where he was making a film. davis, whose 65-year career included credits as a producer, director, actor and writer for stage and screen, was also a civil rights activist. miami beach police spokesman bobby hernandez said the cause of death appeared to be natural.  davis's body was discovered by his grandson and paramedics at the shore club hotel in miami beach, where the actor had been shooting the film retirement. mr hernandez said: "after gaining entry, they found mr davis had passed away. "the cause of death appears to be natural. according to his grandson he was suffering from heart disease." some of davis's best known roles included the joe louis story and gone are the days - a film he adapted from his own play, purlie victorious. he also appeared in 7 spike lee movies, including school daze, do the right thing and jungle fever.  his film debut, in 1950, was in the film no way out, starring sydney poitier and ruby dee. davis and dee were married for more than 56 years and together received kennedy center honours in 2004 for their body of work. the actors' equity association issued a statement calling davis "an icon in the american theatre" and he and dee "american treasures". davis was also a prominent figure in the civil rights movement and was a voice for racial equality. he was a featured speaker at the funerals of both martin luther king jnr and malcolm x. besides dee, davis is survived by three children nora, hasna and guy, a blues artist, and seven grandchildren. mps quiz aides over royal income  senior officials at the two bodies generating private income for the queen and prince of wales are to be questioned by mps.  aides from the duchy of lancaster and duchy of cornwall will appear before the commons public accounts committee. it has been reported they could be questioned about prince charles' spending on camilla parker bowles. but bbc correspondent peter hunt said they are not responsible for how money is spent and may be unable to answer. duchy officials, who will appear before the committee on monday, are only responsible for generating money. the duchy of lancaster provides the queen's private income, while the duchy of cornwall provides prince charles' annual income. the duchy of cornwall is a 140,000-acre estate across 25 counties, and also includes residential properties, shops, offices, stocks and shares. it was set up in 1337 by king edward iii to provide income for successive heirs to the throne. it covers the cost of the prince's public and private life - neither charles, nor william and harry, receive taxpayers' money from the civil list. however, the prince of wales did receive over £4m from government departments and grants-in-aid in 2003-4. the duchy last year generated almost £12m. the prince has voluntarily paid income tax - currently 40% - since 1993. white admits to balco drugs link  banned american sprinter kelli white says she knowingly took steroids given to her by bay area lab co-operative (balco) president victor conte.  conte faces a federal trial next year on charges of distributing steroids and tax evasion, and white said at first he tried to cover up what he was doing. "he's the one who told me that it wasn't what he said it was," white said in the san francisco chronicle. but she added: "it was my decision to go to him, not anybody else's." white said conte at first told her the substance was flaxseed oil, only to change his story later. white failed a drugs test after winning the 100m and 200m titles at the 2003 world athletics championships. she was subsequently handed a two-year ban in may this year and has admitted taking the stimulant modafinil. at first, white claimed she took the drug to combat narcolepsy but she now takes full responsibility for her actions.  "my whole belief about victor is that he was selling a product," white said in the la times. "whether it be a good product or a bad product, he was selling a product." white was introduced to conte through her coach remy korchemy, who is also a defendant in the balco case. the 27-year-old believes doping is so common in sport she felt compelled to cheat herself if she was to have any chance of winning. "i have no clue what it's going to take to change that," said white. "i would say i made a mistake and i would never, ever go back. "i would never recommend anyone to take that route." apple attacked over sources row  civil liberties group the electronic frontier foundation (eff) has joined a legal fight between three us online journalists and apple.  apple wants the reporters to reveal 20 sources used for stories which leaked information about forthcoming products, including the mac mini. the eff, representing the reporters, has asked california's superior court to stop apple pursuing the sources. it argues that the journalists are protected by the american constitution. the eff says the case threatens the basic freedoms of the press.  apple is particularly keen to find the source for information about an unreleased product code-named asteroid and has asked the journalists' e-mail providers to hand over communications relevant to that. "rather than confronting the issue of reporter's privilege head-on, apple is going to the journalist's isps for his e-mails," said eff lawyer kurt opsahl. "this undermines a fundamental first amendment right that protects all reporters. "if the court lets apple get away with this, and exposes the confidences gained by these reporters, potential confidential sources will be deterred from providing information to the media and the public will lose a vital outlet for independent news, analysis and commentary," he said. the case began in december 2004 when apple asked a local californian court to get the journalists to reveal their sources for articles published on websites appleinsider.com and powerpage.org.  apple also sent requested information from the nfox.com, the internet service provider of powerpage's publisher jason o-grady. as well as looking at how far corporations can go in preventing information from being published, the case will also examine whether online journalists have the same privileges and protections as those writing for newspapers and magazines. the eff has gained some powerful allies in its legal battle with apple, including professor tom goldstein, former dean of the journalism school at the university of california and dan gillmor, a well-known silicon valley journalist. apple was not immediately available for comment. us crude prices surge above $53  us crude prices have soared to fresh four-month highs above $53 in the us as refinery problems propelled petrol prices to an all-time high.  us light sweet crude futures jumped to $53.09 a barrel in new york before closing at $53.03. the gains tracked a surge in us gasoline futures to a record high of $1.4850 a gallon. the jump followed a fire at western refining company's refinery in texas, which shut down petrol production. a spokesman for the group was unable to say when the production unit would be back up and running. "this market simply wants to go up," citigroup global markets analyst kyle cooper told reuters news agency. ed silliere, analyst at energy merchant, added: "gasoline is up because of the refinery issues in texas, which means there will be a scramble for product in the (us) gulf coast."  elsewhere, a refinery in houston was closed due to mechanical problems, while on tuesday production at bp's texas city refinery was taken down for a short time. in the approach to spring, the market becomes much more sensitive to problems with petrol production as dealers anticipate rising demand for fuel ahead of the holiday season. the rise in prices came despite a us government report that showed domestic supplies of fuel oil and fuel were rising. meanwhile, oil production cartel opec's recent announcement that it was now unlikely to cut production levels has also failed to calm fears on the market. oil prices are roughly 45% higher than a year ago and have risen sharply in recent weeks due to a combination of colder weather, the declining value of the dollar and fears that opec could rein in production to head off a seasonal drop in demand. instability in iraq and underlying fears about terrorism have also played a part in the rally. jugnot 'tops french actor league'  actor gerard jugnot - star of the oscar-nominated film the chorus - has beaten gerard depardieu to become france's best-paid actor of 2004.  jugnot made 5.45m euros (£3.77m) last year, according to a table drawn up by france's le figaro newspaper. in the chorus (les choristes), jugnot plays an inspiring music teacher at a school for troubled boys in 1949. despite starring in five films in 2004, depardieu made 3.35m euros (£2.31m) putting him third place in the chart. "his name [depardieu] is no longer sufficient to guarantee the success of a film," said le figaro newspaper. the chorus, which jugnot also co-produced, has drawn an audience of nearly nine million people since its release last year.  godzilla star jean reno was france's second best-paid actor in 2004, earning 3.55m euros (£2.45m) . his roles include a recent uncredited cameo in the oscar-nominated hotel rwanda. the highest-ranking woman on le figaro's list was audrey tautou in 10th place, earning 885,000 euros (£611,000). she starred in jean-pierre jeunet's a very long engagement (un long dimanche de fiancailles) and is also lined up to co-star with tom hanks in ron howard's the da vinci code. the chorus is nominated for best foreign film at sunday's oscar ceremony. on saturday, it will compete for the title of best film against fellow nominee a very long engagement in france's cesar film awards. tory leader 'cleared' over work  scottish conservative party leader david mcletchie claims he has been cleared over a potential conflict of interest.  the edinburgh msp earns up to £30,000 a year from the law firm tods murray, where he is a partner. mr mcletchie said he has taken advice from holyrood officials about what details he needs to declare. he was advised to exercise judgement to avoid the perception of a conflict and said he had done nothing wrong. as an msp, mr mcletchie signed a parliamentary motion questioning expansion plans for edinburgh airport.  it then emerged tods murray has a client which opposes the development. mr mcletchie then sought guidance from the standards committee to clarify his position. bbc scotland's political correspondent glenn campbell said no complaint had been made against mr mcletchie, but questions were raised about his dual role. glenn said msps are advised to guard against a conflict of interests and a perception of a conflict.  mr mcletchie said: "i'm quite clear that no conflicts of interest arise in my case, that the judgement i took has effectively been vindicated when you look at the advice that has been given to me and that these allegations are unfounded." he said nothing had changed in respect of his work with the law firm and it was a matter he would have to discuss with the other partners at tods murray. "the firm and i have a very good working relationship and we have done for the last six years," said mr mcletchie. "i don't suppose i'll be working forever as a lawyer or a politician. i deserve to retire from both, but i'm not willing to put time limits on them." trial date is set for balco case  a us judge has set a preliminary trial date for the balco steroid distribution case which has rocked athletics.  us district court judge susan ilston rejected an attempt by the defence team to have the case dismissed at a pre-trial hearing in san francisco. and she set a march date for the case of the four men accused of distributing illegal performance-enhancing drugs to elite athletes to be heard. a firm decision on whether the trial takes place is expected in january. the judge said that she may conduct hearings in january into whether federal agents illegally searched the balco headquarters and wrongfully obtained statements from the company's founder victor conte and its vice-president james valente. the two men - along with personal trainer greg anderson and athletics coach remy korchemny - were all indicted earlier this year but have pleaded their innocence. the outcome of those hearings could result in some or all of the charges being dismissed. conte said that he would be telling his side of the story on an american tv show on friday.  "the world deserves to know the truth about performance-enhancing drugs," he said. balco (the bay area laboratory cooperative) is the company at the centre of the scandal. the company has been accused by the united states anti-doping agency (usada) of being the source of the banned steroid thg and modafinil. the usada claims that 10 athletes have received sanctions for testing positive for thg and modafinil. former double world champion kelli white and olympic relay star alvin harrison have both been banned on the basis of materials discovered during the balco investigation. britain's former european 100m champion dwain chambers is currently serving a two-year ban after testing positive for thg in an out-of-competition test in 2003. sony psp tipped as a 'must-have'  sony's playstation portable is the top gadget for 2005, according to a round-up of ultimate gizmos compiled by stuff magazine.  it beats the ipod into second place in the top ten essentials list which predicts what gadget-lovers are likely to covet this year. owning all 10 gadgets will set the gadget lover back £7,455. that is £1,000 cheaper than last year's list due to falling manufacturing costs making gadgets more affordable.  portable gadgets dominate the list, including sharp's 902 3g mobile phone, the pentax optio sv digital camera and samsung's yepp yh-999 video jukebox.  "what this year's essentials shows is that gadgets are now cheaper, sexier and more indispensable than ever. we've got to the point where we can't live our lives without certain technology," said adam vaughan, editor of stuff essentials. the proliferation of gadgets in our homes is inexorably altering the role of the high street in our lives thinks mr vaughan. "take digital cameras, who would now pay to develop an entire film of photos? or legitimate downloads, who would travel miles to a record shop when they could download the song in minutes for 70p?" he asks. next year will see a new set of technologies capturing the imaginations of gadget lovers, stuff predicts. the xbox 2, high-definition tv and mp3 mobiles will be among the list of must-haves that will dominate 2006, it says. the spring launch of the psp in the uk is eagerly awaited by gaming fans. industrial output falls in japan  japanese industrial output fell in october while unemployment rose, casting further doubt on the strength of the country's economic recovery.  production dropped 1.6% in october, reflecting a decline in exports, while unemployment levels edged up 0.1% to 4.7%, slightly higher than forecast. the economy has grown for six quarters but growth slowed dramatically in the last quarter amid weaker global demand. japan's government remains optimistic due to strong domestic demand.  analysts had been forecasting a 0.1% rise in month on month industrial output.  according to figures from the ministry of economy, trade and industry (meti), the decline was led by a fall in demand for electronic parts for mobile phones and digital televisions. although inventories fell 0.7% month on month, they were 36% higher than a year ago. "it's a sign that the economy's adjustment phase is stronger than expected," said takashi yamanaka, an economist with ufj bank. japan downgraded its overall economic assessment earlier this month for the first time in a year.  growth slowed to 0.3% in the quarter ending september 30, down from 6.3% in the first quarter of 2004. experts believe the economy -which stagnated for most of the 1990s -may be entering a softer patch on the back of rising oil prices and the falling dollar. japanese government officials played down the latest data, arguing that domestic consumer demand was still resilient. "the outlook for november is positive so i don't think one can say that conditions have worsened just because of the fall in october," said a meti official. despite the rise in unemployment, jobless figures are still some way below historical highs of recent years. the comparatively weak economic date preyed on shares with the nikkei down 1% in afternoon trade. howl helps boost japan's cinemas  japan's box office received a 3.8% boost last year, with ticket sales worth 211bn yen (£1.08bn).  the surge was led by animated movie howl's moving castle, which took 20bn yen (£102m) to become the biggest film in japan in 2004. it is expected to match the 30.7bn yen (£157m) record of hayao miyazaki's previous film spirited away. japan motion picture producers figures showed that 170 million cinema admissions were made in japan in 2004. the last samurai, starring tom cruise, was the biggest foreign movie hit in japan last year, taking 13.8bn yen (£70.7m).  it was followed by harry potter and the prisoner of azkaban, finding nemo and the lord of the rings: the return of the king. the second highest-grossing japanese film was romantic drama crying out love in the centre of the world, followed by be with you and pocket monsters advanced generation. japanese films accounted for 37.5% of japan's box office total last year, with foreign films taking the remaining 62.5%. this represented a 4.5% gain for the proportion of japanese films in 2004 compared to 2003. the number of japanese films released rose to 310 in 2004 from 287 the previous year. sales of movies on dvd and video amounted to 497bn yen (£2.54bn) for the year. blair and blunkett sheffield trip  tony blair is to join home secretary david blunkett in a visit to sheffield on thursday.  mr blunkett's conduct is being looked at to establish whether he abused his position in relation to his ex-lover. the parliamentary standards watchdog is looking at his decision to give kimberly quinn free rail tickets. he is also being investigated over the visa application of mrs quinn's ex-nanny. the visit to sheffield will be seen as a show of unity by mr blair.  on wednesday during prime minister's questions, tory leader michael howard went on the offensive over comments mr blunkett is alleged to have made in a new biography. he is understood to have made a series of criticisms about his cabinet colleagues from the prime minister down. mr howard said mr blunkett had complained he had inherited a "giant mess" when he took over at the home office from jack straw, now foreign secretary. the tory leader went on: "he doesn't stop there: he thinks the culture secretary's weak; he thinks the trade secretary doesn't think strategically and he thinks the education secretary hasn't developed as expected. "he says the prime minister doesn't like being told the truth and the chancellor - no doubt the prime minister will agree with this - is a bully." mr blair retorted voters remembered the record of a government and no comments by politicians.  the home secretary has already admitted he was wrong to give the two first class tickets, given to him as an mp, to mrs quinn and has since paid the £180 back. he has apologised for "a genuine mistake" and says he will write to the watchdog to answer further questions. the rail tickets are meant to help mps' spouses get between westminster and their constituencies. after his inquiry, parliamentary watchdog sir philip mawer will report to the commons standards and privileges committee, the group of mps who will recommend to the full house of commons what action - if any - should be taken against mr blunkett.  the separate inquiry by ex-senior civil servant sir alan budd is investigating whether the home secretary helped fast-track a bid by mrs quinn's nanny, leoncia casalme, to stay in the uk. last week, mr blunkett won the first round of a high court battle with mrs quinn for access to her son. mr blunkett declined to comment about his own position, saying the inquiry was under way and the high court had stressed his right to privacy did not affect his job in improving security and stability. downing street has stressed mr blair's support for the home secretary. radcliffe eyes hard line on drugs  paula radcliffe has called for all athletes found guilty on drugs charges to be treated as criminals.  the marathon world record holder believes more needs to be done to rid athletics of the "suspicions and innuendoes" which greet any fast time. "doping in sport is a criminal offence and should be treated as such," the 30-year-old told the sunday times. "it not only cheats other athletes but also cheats promoters, sponsors and the general public."  radcliffe's comments come at a time when several american sports stars are under suspicion of steroid use. "being caught in possession of a performance-enhancing drugs should carry a penalty," she added.  "the current system does not detect many of the substances being abused by athletes. "this means that often athletes do not know if they are competing on a level playing field, if their hard work and sacrifice is being trumped by an easier scientific route. "often, when an athlete puts in a good performance, they are subjected to suspicions and innuendoes instead of praise. "having been on the receiving end of accusations like this i can testify as to how much this hurts." bbc leads interactive bafta wins  the bbc and the national theatre have led the field at this year's interactive bafta awards.  the national theatre's stagework website picked up the prize for best learning as well as top factual site. the bbc collected three awards, including best online entertainment for the hitchhiker's guide to the galaxy adventure game. spooks interactive took the best interactive tv prize. the annual awards recognise the best in digital media. bbc sport interactive fought off competition from cbbc newsround and the guardian to take home the best news and sport trophy for its coverage of england's exit from euro 2004. it was recognised for its "groundbreaking" use of animation. bafta's grant dean, chair of bafta's interactive entertainment committee, said all the entrants had been of "outstanding quality" and that judging had been "enormously difficult". "without a doubt, 2005 has been a landmark year for the bafta interactive awards," he added.  "many of the top awards this year have gone to the companies we most commonly associate with traditional entertainment, showing how the gap between new media, film and television is closing."  awards were given out in 12 different categories, including interactive tv, film, music, design, as well as technical and social innovation, at a london ceremony. the top music award was given to sseyo minimixa, a mobile music sequencer designed to let people write, edit and share compositions. warner bros was given two prizes for its "inspiring" efforts in film and dvd interactivity. the chaplin collection beat oasis, really bend it like beckham, shaun of the dead and the day today in the dvd category, and trauma won best film. elsewhere, fashionista and clothes designer alexander mcqueen took the accolade for the best-designed website. the awards have been running since 1997, but in 2002 the british academy of film and television decided to split them into separate games and interactive ceremonies. on tuesday half-life 2 dominated the games prizes. it collected six baftas, including best game and best online game. ryanair in $4bn boeing plane deal  budget airline ryanair has placed an order for 70 boeing 737-800 planes, in a deal valued at $4bn (£2.1bn) which should lead to 2,500 new ryanair jobs.  it also has an option for a further 70 aircraft, a move which brings the ryanair/boeing order book up to 225 firm orders and options on 193 more. ryanair said the new planes would help it to cut operating costs further. the carrier reported a drop in quarterly profit earlier this year after it was hit by higher fuel costs. however, when it reported the results, the airline was upbeat about prospects for 2005, despite tough competition in the budget airline market.  ryanair chairman david bonderman said that the 737-800 had "significantly reduced our unit operating costs and allowed us to reduce air fares each year for the last five years".  "with this new order and new pricing in place, ryanair expects that unit operating costs (excluding fuel) will continue to fall each year for the next five years," he added. at the end of this year, ryanair will have taken delivery of about 100 new planes, while the 70 new orders are due for delivery between 2008 and 2012. the airline said that when all these planes have been delivered, it will be able to carry more than 70 million passengers a year, making it europe's largest airline. about 2,500 new jobs should be created in the next seven years, it added. the order can be seen as good news for boeing, which in recent years has been overtaken by european plane maker airbus as the world's biggest-selling plane maker. berlin applauds hotel rwanda  political thriller hotel rwanda was given a rousing reception by spectators at the berlin film festival on saturday.  the movie's star don cheadle also received a standing ovation when he stepped onto the stage after the show. the film is the true story of the hotel manager who saved 1,200 tutsis from death during the rwandan genocide. the film, showing out of competition in berlin, is nominated for three oscars, including best actor for cheadle. sophie okonedo, who plays cheadle's wife tatiana, is nominated for best supporting actress. the film is also in the running for best original screenplay. cheadle, was joined on stage at berlin by paul rusesabagina, the hotel manager he plays in the film, mr rusesabagina's wife and his extended family, who fled rwanda and now live in belgium. mr rusesabagina used his influence as a prominent hutu businessman to shelter potential victims of the rwandan genocide, contacting dignitaries including bill clinton, the king of belgium as well as the french foreign ministry. hotel rwanda is one of two films addressing the genocide at the 55th berlin film festival, which runs until 20 february. sometimes in april is a feature by raoul peck competing for the festival's coveted golden and silver bear awards. the film was made exclusively in rwanda whereas hotel rwanda was shot mostly in south africa, with some scenes made in kigali. student 'fee factor' played down  a rise has been recorded in the number of students from south of the border applying to universities in scotland.  however, lifelong learning minister jim wallace said that this would not result in scottish students missing out. applications from england and wales rose by 17% between january 2005 and the previous year, up 23,600 to 27,700. fears had been expressed that a flood of "fee refugees" would try to avoid top-up fees of up to £3,000 a year being introduced in england. in june last year, mr wallace announced proposals to increase tuition fees for english students studying in scotland by £2,000 in an attempt to prevent a cross-border flood, although no figure has yet been agreed. legislation to introduce the top-up fees in england is not due to take effect until autumn 2006 and students who start before then will not have to pay additional fees at all.  the figures were made public on thursday by admissions service ucas. universities scotland, which represents university principals, claimed that an increase in applications did not amount to scottish students being squeezed out. director, david caldwell, said some students could be applying in an attempt to avoid the possible increase in annual fees at english universities, but this was not a major factor. he told bbc radio scotland's good morning scotland programme: "the reason people are opting for scottish universities is that they are perceived as being of very high quality, they offer very attractive courses and scotland is seen as a very attractive place to study.  "they know that when they take up their studies in 2006 they will be hit by top-up fees if they are going to a university in england and that may be part of the reason why the numbers coming to scotland are so inflated. "however, it does not mean that we will see thousands of additional students from england studying here." mr wallace agreed and said the figures had to be looked at in context. he explained that when applications were translated into acceptances, the number was not huge - an additional figure of about 200.  also, the picture was further blurred by the fact that applications from wales, where there are no plans for top-up fees, have also risen, by 19%. mr wallace said: "accepting students from all parts of the world does show the high regard in which scottish higher education is held, not just in britain. "we want to make sure that when students are making their choice, they do so on the nature of the course and not because they are under some sort of financial pressure to go to scotland. "we do not want to have a situation where it becomes impossible for scottish students to get places at scottish universities because we are seen as the cheap option. "very often the quality of the university experience is enhanced by the fact there are students coming from a wide range of backgrounds so it would be wrong to go the other way and start excluding students." kenteris denies faking road crash  greek sprinter kostas kenteris has denied claims that he faked a motorbike crash to avoid a doping test days before the start of the olympics.  kenteris and fellow sprinter katerina thanou are set to learn if they will face criminal charges this week. part of the investigation has centred on whether they staged the crash. kenteris insisted: "the accident happened. i went crazy when i found out i had supposedly missed a test and i wanted to rush to the olympic village." kenteris, speaking on greece's alter television station, also claimed that he asked to be tested for banned substances in hospital after the crash. "i told the hospital, which was an olympics-accredited hospital, to call the ioc and have me tested on the spot but no-one came."  after a drama which dominated newspaper headlines in greece as athens prepared for the start of the athens games, kenteris and thanou eventually withdrew. but kenteris has continually protested his innocence - and on sunday blamed greek olympic committee officials and his former coach christos tzekos for failing to inform him of the test. the 31-year-old insisted he will be happy if he is charged so he can clear his name. "if a decision is taken to have charges filed against me, i will accept it gladly. "a prosecution means that the case will be cleared... i want to go to the end and then we'll see who's right and who isn't." kenteris, a greek hero after winning gold in the 200m at the 2000 olympics in sydney, also confirmed that he was due to light the flame at the athens opening ceremony. "i had even rehearsed lighting the cauldron," he said. millions buy mp3 players in us  one in 10 adult americans - equivalent to 22 million people - owns an mp3 player, according to a survey.  a study by the pew internet and american life project found that mp3 players are the gadget of choice among affluent young americans. the survey did not interview teenagers but it is likely that millions of under-18s also have mp3 players. the american love affair with digital music players has been made possible as more and more homes get broadband.  of the 22 million americans who own mp3 players, 59% are men compared to 41% of women. those on high income - judged to be $75,000 (£39,000) or above - are four times more likely to have players than those earning less than $30, 000 ( £15,000). broadband access plays a big part in ownership too. almost a quarter of those with broadband at home have players, compared to 9% of those who have dial-up access. mp3 players are still the gadget of choice for younger adults. almost one in five us citizens aged under 30 have one. this compares to 14% of those aged 30-39 and 14% of those aged 40-48. the influence of children also plays a part. sixteen percent of parents living with children under 18 have digital players compared to 9% of those who don't. the ease of use and growth of music available on the net are the main factors for the upsurge in ownership, the survey found. people are beginning to use them as instruments of social activity - sharing songs and taking part in podcasting - the survey found. "ipods and mp3 players are becoming a mainstream technology for consumers" said lee rainie, director of the pew internet and american life project. "more growth in the market is inevitable as new devices become available, as new players enter the market, and as new social uses for ipods/mp3 players become popular," he added. parmalat to return to stockmarket  parmalat, the italian dairy company which went bust after an accounting scandal, hopes to be back on the italian stock exchange in july.  the firm gained protection from creditors in 2003 after revealing debts of 14bn euros ($18.34bn; £9.6bn). this was eight times higher than it had previously stated. in a statement issued on wednesday night, parmalat finanziaria detailed administrators' latest plans for re-listing the shares of the group.  as part of the re-listing on the italian stock exchange, creditors' debts are expected to be converted into shares through two new share issues amounting to more than 2bn euros. the company's creditors will be asked to vote on the plan later this year. the plan is likely to give creditors of parmalat finanziaria shares worth about 5.7% of the debts they are owed. this is lower than the 11.3% creditors previously hoped to receive. creditors of parmalat, the main operating company, are likely to see the percentage of debt they receive fall from 7.3% to 6.9%.  several former top parmalat executives are under investigation for the fraud scandal. lawmakers said on wednesday night enrico bondi, the turnaround specialist appointed by the italian government as parmalat's chief executive, spoke positively about the company during a closed-door hearing of the chamber of deputies industry commission. "bondi supplied us with elements of positive results on the industrial positions and on the history of debt which will find a point of solution through the parmalat group's quotation on the market in july," italian news agency apcom quoted several lawmakers as saying in a statement. 'landmark movies' of 2004 hailed  us film professionals have declared fahrenheit 9/11 and the passion of the christ as two of the most significant cultural milestones of 2004.  the american film institute (afi) hailed mel gibson's biblical epic and michael moore's political documentary as inspiring national debate. it claimed both film-makers "tossed hollywood convention out the window". the institute also cited the death of actor marlon brando and the changing landscape of tv news in the us. in referring to marlon brando's death on 1 july at the age of 80, the 13-strong afi jury concluded "the art of screen acting has two chapters - 'before brando' and 'after brando'.  it credited the screen legend's "raw hypnotic energy" and his ability to create characters like stanley kowalski and terry malloy "that will live forever in the annals of film history". the list also acknowledges key influences and trends in the world of film and broadcasting. among current trends, it highlighted the final broadcasts of veteran newscasters tom brokaw, barbara walters and the impending retirement of cbs news anchor dan rather. it its place, the afi fears, is a news landscape where "newscasters are more personalities than journalists" and balance and integrity are increasingly ignored.  the afi also questioned "the long-term viability of evening news broadcasts", in the light of 24-hour news channels and the internet. the list also draws attention to the growing influence of us broadcasting regulator, the federal communications commission (fcc)  the institute concluded the threat of regulation, which went into freefall following janet jackson's 'wardrobe malfunction' during a live super bowl performance in february, "had a profound effect on television". "unsure of how the fcc will rule on an issue, the creative community has begun to self-censor their shows, a disturbing trend in a country founded on free expression," the afi jury declared. to illustrate their point, the afi cited abc affiliates refusal to air steven spielberg's film saving private ryan in an unedited form over fears of possible fines. anglers 'could face prosecution'  anglers and fishermen could find themselves prosecuted under plans to crack down on animal cruelty, a committee of mps has warned.  sloppy wording of the draft animal welfare bill could leave anglers facing court even though it was not intended, the environment select committee said. the mps said they were "concerned" the government had not consulted directly on its plans to improve animal welfare. they raised complex and emotive issues which needed to be resolved, mps said.  they called for a "cast-iron guarantee" that the government consults on any plans to regulate animal industries like pet fairs and game bird rearing. the draft bill seeks to modernise and improve animal welfare legislation, and intends to protect "kept animals" and "companion" animals by setting up a "duty of care". in addition to maintaining existing cruelty offences, it creates an offence of neglect by keepers who fail to protect the animals for whom they are responsible. the bill would allow animal welfare officers to intervene to prevent harm to an animal as well as outlawing "mutilation" of animals - unless it can be demonstrated to be in the animal's best interest.  the environment select committee made 101 recommendations after hearing evidence from 51 organisations and individuals. one was a call to amend the bill so that prosecutions against those engaged in fishing were not inadvertently encouraged - even if they were to later fail. "we accept that neither commercial fishing nor recreational angling should fall within the remit of the of the draft bill and we therefore support the government's intention to exempt fishing as an activity."  but the committee said an amendment was needed to ensure cases were not brought. "however, in exempting fishing, the government should be careful to ensure that those persons who catch fish are not given 'carte blanche' to inflict unnecessary suffering in the course of pursuing this activity," the committee added. the committee also said some legal protections for animals were downgraded by the bill, such as the law on abandonment of animals which "would be significantly weakened". mps urged the government to redraft clauses relating to the prosecution of cruelty offences. this was because as it stood the draft bill would allow certain acts that should be prosecuted - such as unnecessary suffering caused to an animal through neglect, or unnecessary mental suffering - to go unpunished.  committee chairman michael jack said: "any change in the law as it affects animals always arouses powerful emotions and great public interest. "this draft bill is no exception. my committee welcomes the development of an approach to animal welfare which doesn't just wait for a problem to occur but enables action to be taken to protect animals before irreversible suffering takes place." but mr jack said the bill "very much had the feel of a 'work in progress', and urged the government to guarantee that "an obligation to consult will be enshrined in law" before it extended legislative plans to areas such as pet fairs, circuses and game bird farms. "the government must work hard to take the rough edges of its initial proposals before the bill is introduced to parliament," he added. greek pair set for hearing  kostas kenteris and katerina thanou will fight the provisional two-year bans imposed on them by the iaaf at an independent tribunal this weekend.  athletics' ruling body took action against the pair for failing to take drugs tests before the athens olympics. an independent tribunal of the greek track and field federation will meet to decide whether to ratify the sanction. the sprint duo face charges of failing to give information on their location and refusing to submit to a drugs test. kenteris' lawyer gregory ioannidis told bbc sport: "we refute both charges as unsubstantiated and illogical. "there have been certain breaches in the correct application of the rules on behalf of the sporting authorities and their officials, and these procedural breaches have also violated my client's rights. "there is also evidence that proves the fact that my client has been persecuted." ioannidis, who is a law lecturer at the university of buckingham, added: "one of the important rights and foundations of law and justice - that the accused should be presumed innocent unless proved otherwise - has been tarnished." the panel will also decide on the two-year ban imposed on the athletes' controversial coach christos tzekos by the iaaf. kenteris, the 2000 olympic 200m champion, and thanou, the women's 100m silver medallist from the same games in sydney, quit the olympics on 18 august after failing to give samples on the eve of the opening ceremony.  testers could not find them at the olympic village and the duo were later admitted to hospital after claiming to have been involved in a motorcycle accident. they also missed tests in tel aviv, chicago and athens before the games. in imposing two-year suspensions on the duo on 22 december, the iaaf described their explanations for missing the tests as "unacceptable". whatever the findings of the independent tribunal, all parties will have the right to appeal to the court of arbitration for sport. the tribunal hearing will take place at the hellenic olympic committee building. it will start at 1200 gmt on saturday and is expected to finish early next week. the tribunal panel will consist of five members - president konstantinos panagopoulos and panagiotis dimakos, haralabos hrisanthakis, stilianos perakis and ioannis karmis. kenteris and thanou also face criminal charges in greece for allegedly faking the motorcycle accident. eight criminal charges have been laid against the sprinters as well as tzekos, an eyewitness to the accident and hospital officials. but there has been speculation that the charges could be dropped. 'no re-draft' for eu patent law  a proposed european law on software patents will not be re-drafted by the european commission (ec) despite requests by meps.  the law is proving controversial and has been in limbo for a year. some major tech firms say it is needed to protect inventions, while others fear it will hurt smaller tech firms the ec says the council of ministers will adopt a draft version that was agreed upon last may but said it would review "all aspects of the directive". the directive is intended to offer patent protection to inventions that use software to achieve their effect, in other words, "computer implemented invention".  in a letter, ec president jos&#233; manuel barroso told the president of the european parliament, josep borrell, that the commission "did not intend to refer a new proposal to the parliament and the council (of ministers)" as it had supported the agreement reached by ministers in may 2004.  if the european council agrees on the draft directive it will then return for a second reading at the european parliament. but that will not guarantee that the directive will become law - instead it will probably mean further delays and controversy over the directive. most eu legislation now needs the approval of both parliament and the council of ministers before it becomes law. french green mep alain lipietz warned two weeks ago that if the commission ignored the parliament's request it would be an "insult" to the assembly. he said that the parliament would then reject the council's version of the legislation as part of the final or conciliation stage of the decision procedure. in the us, the patenting of computer programs and internet business methods is permitted.  this means that the us-based amazon.com holds a patent for its "one-click shopping" service, for example. critics are concerned that the directive could lead to a similar model happening in europe. this, they fear, could hurt small software developers because they do not have the legal and financial might of larger companies if they had to fight patent legal action in court. supporters say current laws are inefficient and it would serve to even up a playing field without bringing eu laws in line with the us. bmw cash to fuel mini production  less than four years after the new mini was launched, german car maker bmw has announced £100m of new investment.  some 200 new jobs are to be created at the oxford factory, including modernised machinery and a new body shell production building. the result of the investment could be to raise output to more than 200,000 cars from 2007. the rise, from 189,000 last year, is a response to rapidly-rising demand and could help wipe out waiting lists. before wednesday's announcement, bmw had invested some £280m in mini production.  since its launch during summer 2001, the new mini has gone from strength to strength.  last year, almost one in six cars sold by the bmw group was a mini. the company admits that the success of the brand came despite scepticism from many in the industry. "our decision to produce a new mini was not received well right away," said norbert reithofer, a member of the bmw management board. initially, bmw said it would produce 100,000 mini models a year at its vast cowley factory on the outskirts of oxford, but the target was quickly reached, then raised, time and time again. not everyone is convinced that the boom can continue. "the risk is that after they've invested massively in the brand, demand tapers off like it did with the new vw beetle," said brad wernle, from automotive news europe.  the price of the car has also gone up. when it was launched, the cheapest mini cost just more than £10,000. these days, buyers will have to fork out almost £11,500 to own a new mini one, or even more for the cooper s which costs up to £17,730. the mini convertible, which was launched last spring, costs up to £15,690 for the top model, and there is even a waiting list. second-hand minis are not cheap either. a mini one bought when the model was launched should still fetch at least £8,000 for the cheapest model, while a used cooper s is likely to be priced from £12,556, according to the-car buying website parker's. the consumers' association which operates with slightly different numbers, yet it confirms that the mini cooper 1.6 depreciates slower than any other car, other than the mercedes benz c180 se and the bmw 1 series 116i se.  the cowley factory, which initially seemed far too large a production plant for just 100,000 minis, is increasingly being put to good use.  there are plans to tear down old buildings and build new ones and there are rumours that a new paint shop could be included in the plans. bmw's mini adventure has made good much of what went wrong during its stewardship of the uk car maker rover which it sold for £10 five years ago to the phoenix consortium. in 1999, when bmw still owned rover, the oxford factory was producing the award-winning rover 75. during that year, 3,500 people produced 56,000 cars. last year, in the same factory, almost four times as many vehicles were produced by just 4,500 mini-workers. the mini factory's current output is equally impressive when compared with the main rover factory in longbridge, which in 1999 produced 180,000 rover cars. last year, mg rover, which employs more than 6,000 people, produced just 110,000 cars, though it hopes to land a deal with shanghai automotive industry corporation (saic) that could help double the number of cars produced at longbridge. indeed, mini is not only producing more cars than mg rover does; it remains ahead even when the current sales of land rovers and range rovers (which are made by the former rover unit that bmw sold to ford) are taken into account. de niro film leads us box office  film star robert de niro has returned to the top of the north american box office with his film hide and seek.  the thriller shot straight to the number one spot after taking $22m (£11.7m) at the box office. de niro recently spent three weeks at the top with comedy meet the fockers, which was at number five this week. oscar hopefuls the aviator, million dollar baby and sideways all cashed in on their multiple nominations with stronger ticket sales.  in hide and seek, de niro plays a widower whose daughter has a creepy imaginary friend. despite lukewarm reviews from critics, the film took more than the expected $18m (£9.5m). "the element of a real actor in a psychological thriller certainly elevated it," said bruce snyder, president of domestic distribution at 20th century fox. clint eastwood's million dollar baby led the oscar hopefuls with $11.8m (£6.3m), coming in at number three during its first weekend of wide release. the aviator, a film biography of howard hughes that leads the oscar field with 11 nominations, was at number six for the weekend with $7.5m (£4m). oscar best-picture nominee sideways entered the top ten for the first time in its 15th week of release. it came in seventh $6.3 (£3.35m). last week's top film, ice cube's road-trip comedy are we there yet?, slipped to second place with $17m (£9m), while coach carter fell two places to number four, taking $8m (£4.25m) in its third week. rounding out the top ten were in good company - starring dennis quaid and scarlett johansson - racing stripes and assault on precinct 13. clarke to press on with id cards  new home secretary charles clarke has vowed to plough on with plans for id cards despite a call for him to "pause for thought" from charles kennedy.  the lib dem leader said david blunkett's resignation was a "good opportunity" to question whether the legislation was necessary. but mr clarke said he had supported the plans when mr blunkett argued for them in cabinet and he supported them now. "id cards are a means to creating a more secure society," he said. mr clarke acknowledged how the measure was introduced remained a matter for debate but he said legislation had already been "significantly influenced" by the recommendations of the commons' home affairs committee.  the issue would be debated in parliament next monday as scheduled he insisted. earlier mr kennedy, whose party opposes the id cards plan as "deeply flawed" said with christmas coming up the new home secretary had time to think again. he told bbc radio 4's today programme that mr clarke had been reported to be less enthusiastic about id cards than his predecessors. "wouldn't this be a good opportunity for a new home secretary, a new broom, to sweep clean in this respect and why do we need this legislation in the first place?" he asked. earlier this week the tories announced they would back the government's plans although michael howard was forced to deny the shadow cabinet was split over its decision.  they had decided to support the plans as the police said they would help fight terror, crime and illegal immigration. among those reported to have serious reservations over the strategy were senior shadow cabinet members david davis, oliver letwin and tim yeo. the chairman of the bar council, guy mansfield qc has warned there is a real risk that people on the "margins of society" would be driven into the hands of extremists. "what is going to happen to young asian men when there has been a bomb gone off somewhere? they are going to be stopped. if they haven't [id cards] they are going to be detained."  the home office says people will pay £85 for a passport and id card together or a undecided fee for a separate id card. the first cards would be issued in 2008 and when he was introducing the bill, mr blunkett suggested parliament could decide in 2011 or 2012 whether to make it compulsory for everybody to own the cards, although not to carry them. the new bill will also create new criminal offences on the possession of false identity documents. and there will be civil penalties including a fine of up to £1,000 fine for people who fail to say they have moved house or changed other details and of up to £2,500 for failing to sign up if the cards become compulsory. the scheme will be overseen by a new independent watchdog. jones files conte lawsuit  marion jones has filed a lawsuit for defamation against balco boss victor conte following his allegations that he gave her performance-enhancing drugs.  the sydney olympic gold medallist says conte damaged her reputation and she is seeking $25m (£13m) in the suit. conte, whose company is at the centre of a doping investigation, made the claims in a us television programme. he and three others were indicted in february by a federal grand jury for a variety of alleged offences. in an email to the associated press on wednesday, conte said: "i stand by everything i said". jones won three gold medals and two bronzes in sydney in 2000. her lawsuit, filed in the us district court in san francisco, said the sprinter had passed a lie detector test and that she "has never taken banned performance-enhancing drugs". conte's statements, the suit added, were "false and malicious". after the abc television program earlier this month, jones' lawyer richard nicholls said: "marion has steadfastly maintained her position throughout: she has never, ever used performance-enhancing drugs. "victor conte is a man facing a 42-count federal indictment, while marion jones is one of america's most decorated female athletes. mr conte's statements have been wildly contradictory. "mr conte chose to make unsubstantiated allegations on television, while marion jones demanded to take and then passed a lie detector examination.  "mr conte is simply not credible. we challenge him to submit to the same lie detector procedure that marion jones passed." the sport's ruling body, the iaaf, is taking a cautious approach to conte's allegations but contacted the us anti-doping agency. communications director nick davies said the iaaf would seek to contact conte "for further information". but davies stressed it would be up to the american authorities to decide whether they will take action against jones in light of conte's television interview and the world governing body would monitor the situation closely. "if it is felt there is case to answer, it would be for its national governing body (usa track and field) to take the appropriate disciplinary action," he added. "the us anti-doping agency has proved itself to be very diligent in its anti-doping war. "and i am sure, like ourselves, they will be watching the television programme with great interest." jones, who is under investigation for steroid use by the us anti-doping agency, has continually denied ever taking illegal substances since being investigated in the balco scandal, although she praised a zinc supplement conte marketed. jones, who did not win any medals in athens in august, has never failed a drugs test. meanwhile, conte, who has been charged along with three other men of distributing illegal steroids and money laundering, is due to face trial in march. domain system scam fear  a system to make it easier to create website addresses using alphabets like cyrillic could open a back door for scammers, a trade body has warned.  the internationalised domain names system has been a work in progress for years and has recently been approved by the internet electronic task force. but the uk internet forum (ukif) is concerned that the system will let scammers create fake sites more easily. the problem lies in the computer codes used to represent language.  registering names that look like that of legitimate companies but lead users to fake sites designed to steal passwords and credit card details could become a whole lot easier for determined scammers, says stephen dyer, director of ukif. domain names are the "real language" addresses of websites, rather than their internet protocol address, which is a series of numbers. they are used so people can more easily navigate the web. so-called ascii codes are used to represent european languages but for other languages a hybrid of a system called unicode is used. so, for example, website paypal could now be coded using a mixture of the latin alphabet and the russian alphabet. the resulting domain as displayed to the users would look identical to the real site as a russian 'a' look just like an english 'a'. but the computer code would be different, and the site it would lead users to could be a fake. this is more than just a theory. a fake paypal.com has already been registered with net domain giant verisign by someone who has followed the debate around the internationalised domain name (idn) system, said mr dyer. as the idea was to prove a point rather than be malicious the fake domain has now been handed back to paypal but it sets a worrying precedent, mr dyer said. "although the idn problem is well known in technical circles, the commercial world is totally unaware how easily their websites can be faked," said mr dyer.  "it is important to alert users that there is a new and invisible and almost undetectable way of diverting them to what looks like a perfectly genuine site," he added. there are solutions. for instance, browsers could spot domains that use mixed characters and display them in different colours as a warning to users. mr dyer acknowledged that it would be a huge undertaking to update all the world's browsers. another solution, to introduce idn-disabled browsers could be a case of "throwing out the baby with the bath water," he said. centr, the council of european national top level domain registries, agrees. "a rush to introduce idn-disabled browsers into the marketplace is an overly-zealous step that will harm public confidence in idns - a technology that is desperately needed in the non-english speaking world," the organisation said in a statement. bad weather hits nestle sales  a combination of bad weather, rising raw material costs and the sluggish european economy has hit sales at swiss food and drink giant nestle.  revenue dipped 1.4% to 86.7bn swiss francs ($74.6bn; £39.1bn) in 2004 as sales of ice cream and mineral water were dampened by the wet summer. however, nestle's profits margins were helped by a strong performance in the americas and china. nestle is to raise its dividend by 11% after paying back some of its debt.  nestle said that the strength of the swiss franc against the us dollar, the disposal of businesses and challenging trading conditions in europe all dented sales. a poor summer across the continent - in contrast to the prolonged heat wave in 2003 - "severely affected" demand for ice cream. sales of bottled water also fell, although chocolate, coffee, frozen goods and petcare products performed better.  elsewhere, nestle said it had enjoyed an "exceptional" year in north america, outperforming the market in terms of sales growth. nestle added that it had performed strongly in africa and asia despite the impact of high oil prices and political instability. nestle's total earnings before interest remained broadly flat over the past year, despite the company managing to boost profit margins. as well as increasing its dividend, nestle plans to buy back shares worth 1bn swiss francs ($861m; £451m). looking forward, nestle forecasts organic earnings growth of about 5% in 2005, although it warned that trading would remain just as competitive.  uncertainty remains over the future of perrier, the iconic french mineral water owned by nestle. perrier has been locked in a long-standing dispute with unions about productivity levels at the business, which has lead nestle to consider selling the firm. "the option of selling is perrier is still on the table," chief executive peter brabeck-letmathe confirmed on thursday. willis sues over movie 'injury'  actor bruce willis is suing revolution studios over an injury he said he suffered while making tears of the sun.  willis is seeking medical expenses after he said he was hit in the head by a firework during the filming of the 2002 movie, produced by the firm. the lawsuit said the star has endured mental and physical injuries as a result of the alleged incident. "we are not able to comment on pending litigation," revolution studios spokesman sean dudas said.  in tears of the sun willis plays a us military commander who disobeys orders to try and help save a doctor and patients trapped in the nigerian jungle. directed by antoine fuqua, the film was poorly received by critics and did not perform strongly at the box office. according to the lawsuit, the injury was suffered during the firing of explosions as part of a special effect. the explosions, known as squibs, were intended to "simulate the appearance of bullets striking the ground". the lawsuit said willis has endured "extreme mental, physical and emotional pain and suffering." there were no specific details on the injuries. while willis does not seek specific monetary damages, the lawsuit noted that the star "was required to and did employ physicians and other medical personnel". it stated he will incur additional future medical expenses. the lawsuit said revolution studios and special effects foreman joe pancake "had a duty to willis to ensure that the squibs were inspected, set up, placed and detonated in a safe manner, and to employ technicians who were trained and competent in their use". scots smoking ban details set out  smoke-free areas will save lives and improve scotland's health, first minister jack mcconnell has insisted.  he told the scottish parliament on wednesday that a "comprehensive ban" on smoking in public places would be introduced by the spring of 2006. mr mcconnell said the country's health rates were "lamentable" not least because of smoking. he said fines of up to £2,500 would be levied on employers and licences would be removed for non-compliance. earlier, the scottish executive considered a range of options but agreed unanimously to introduce an all-out ban on smoking in public places. in a statement to parliament, mr mcconnell said that the licensed trade would be asked to join an expert committee prior to the ban coming into force.  the health arguments far outweighed lingering public disquiet about a complete ban and claims by the licensed trade that jobs would be lost, he told msps. he said there would be an international marketing campaign whereby "tourists can enjoy smoke free environment and the sick man of europe image becomes a thing of the past". "there are still national habits which hold us back - the time has come for this parliament to accelerate improvements in health," he declared. "health rates are lamentable because of a lack of exercise, drugs abuse, excessive drinking and over-eating. "they all make us one of the most unhealthy countries in europe, and too many smoke. "it is clear that scotland must not be held back by poor public health - the single biggest contribution devolved government can make is to reduce the toll of preventable death caused by smoking." the legislation will be introduced as part of the health service (miscellaneous provisions) bill, which will be considered by parliament before christmas. main points of the plan:    - a comprehensive ban on smoking in all enclosed public places in scotland   - the legislation will be enforced by environmental health and local licensing officers   - licensees or employers who fail to enforce the law will face fines up to a maximum of £2,500   - licensees who persistently refuse to comply with the law will face the ultimate sanction of losing their liquor licence   - a system of issuing fixed penalty notices for those individuals who break the law will be examined   - individuals who persistently break the law will face a maximum fine of £1,000.     mr mcconnell claimed there was evidence that smoking bans had helped smokers to either give up quicker or smoke less. he said there had been falling cigarette sales of 13% in new york and 16% in ireland. mr mcconnell added that there had been a near nine per cent rise in tax revenues from new york bars and restaurants and, in ireland, only a one point three per cent volume sales fall, where they were declining before the ban. the afternoon announcement, following a cabinet meeting on wednesday morning, won broad support from opposition parties.  the scottish national party's holyrood leader, nicola sturgeon, welcomed the move but added that the public should be consulted as the clock ticked towards the ban date. she said: "the time has come for a ban on smoking in public places. "there is evidence a ban can cut deaths from passive smoking and makes it easier for the 70% of smokers who desperately want to give up the habit. "but we must also recognise that some people have concerns and reservations - there are people who are yet to be persuaded." the scottish conservative party leader, david mcletchie, questioned what would be exempted from the ban. he was keen to know if inmates in scottish prisons would continue to be allowed to smoke. mr mcletchie asked: "would it not be ironic and perhaps entirely typical of the first minister's brave new scotland that the criminals can be smokers but the smokers will become criminals?" the scottish green party's health spokeswoman, eleanor scott, said she was pleased scotland would be following the "success stories of new york and ireland". she believed the majority of people in scotland wanted to go out without having to breathe in harmful tobacco smoke. iaaf awaits greek pair's response  kostas kenteris and katerina thanou are yet to respond to doping charges from the international association of athletics federations (iaaf).  the greek pair were charged after missing a series of routine drugs tests in tel aviv, chicago and athens. they have until midnight on 16 december and an iaaf spokesman said: "we're sure their responses are on their way." if they do not respond or their explanations are rejected, they will be provisionally banned from competition. they will then face a hearing in front of the greek federation, which will ultimately determine their fate. their former coach christos tzekos has also been charged with distributing banned substances. under iaaf rules, the athletes could receive a maximum one-year suspension. kenteris and thanou already face a criminal trial after being charged with avoiding a drug test on the eve of the athens olympics and then faking a motorcyle crash.  no date for the trial has yet been set and again tzekos is also facing charges. the iaaf issued an official warning to the trio last year after they were discovered training in qatar rather than in crete, where they had said they would be. all athletes must inform their national federations where they are at all times, so they can be available for out-of-competition drugs tests. but kenteris and thanou then went on to skip tests in tel aviv and chicago, when they decided to fly back to greece early. then just before the olympics, the pair dramatically missed another test in athens and withdrew from the games. cheaper chip for mobiles  a mobile phone chip which combines a modem and a computer processor on one bit of silicon instead of two could make phones cheaper and more powerful.  the specially-designed chip, developed by texas instruments, could drive down the cost of making mobiles capable of 3d gaming and 30-frame-a-second video. currently, rich multimedia features tend to be on more expensive handsets. the technology, omap-vox, is being tested by firms in europe and asia and could appear by the end of the year. texas, which makes computer chips for more than half the world's mobile phones, said it was keen to make multimedia functions like video and gaming more affordable. "we're going to drive them down into meat-and-potatoes phones that have the largest market share," said doug rasor, a marketing vice president at texas. the chip also uses much less power than conventional chips, said texas, which means less strain on mobile battery life.  more than 50 million people own a mobile in the uk, but mobile operators are keen to encourage people to move onto more sophisticated handsets that can do more. texas is keen to cash in on the third generation (3g) of mobile technology, which offers high-speed networks for video streaming and other multimedia functions. but it faces stiff competition from the likes of intel which is also looking to provide better chips for high-end mobiles.  competition to get people using 3g mobiles will grow in the next year as almost all of the uk's operators have now launched third generation networks. a recent survey by sony ericsson predicted that the number of 3g handsets sold in 2005 would double from 2004 to account for 10% of all phones sold. many consumers are still to be convinced though. a further recent survey said that only 4% of mobile owners were thinking of upgrading to 3g phones. many said they were confused about the different ways to pay for phones and the vast array of features most have onboard.  but there will be continued demand for better chips as the industry continues to develop new standards and future networks. earlier in january, ntt docomo and vodafone joined forces to develop the next generation of high-speed networks, known as "super 3g", intended to be 10 times faster than 3g services. the first stage of development is to be completed by 2007, but no date has been set for a commercial launch the newly-designed omap-vox chip set was announced ahead of the start of a major mobile industry conference, 3gsm, which takes place in cannes, france this week. fiat mulls ferrari market listing  ferrari could be listed on the stock market as part of an overhaul of fiat's carmaking operations, the financial times has reported.  it said fiat was set to restructure its business after reaching a $2bn (1.53bn euros; £1.05bn) settlement with gm about fiat's ownership. steps being considered include listing ferrari and bringing maserati and alfa romeo closer together, it said. despite strong sales of alfa romeo, fiat's car business is making a loss.  under the proposals - which the paper said could be announced within days - the iconic sportscar maker could be listed separately on the market. fiat owns a 56% stake in ferrari -best known for its dominant formula one motor racing team - having first bought into the business in 1969. it considered floating ferrari in 2002 but opted to sell a minority stake to italian bank mediobanca for 775m euros ($1bn). that sale valued ferrari - which owns the maserati brand - at 2.3bn euros. the price tag would change if maserati was stripped out. the financial times said fiat may transfer maserati within its wholly- owned alfa romeo division in an effort to exploit commercial synergies. such a move would help alfa romeo and maserati to share marketing, distribution and research & development costs. maserati and ferrari sell about 10,000 cars between them and both companies broke even in 2003.  fiat, italy's largest private sector employer, did not comment on the reported changes. fiat recently negotiated an end to its alliance with general motors. the us firm agreed to pay $2bn to exit an agreement under which it could have been liable to buy fiat outright. analysts said the reported restructuring was evidence of the greater flexibility which fiat now had to develop the business. foxx and swank win us awards  jamie foxx and hilary swank have won the screen actors guild awards for best male and female film actors, boosting their oscars hopes this month.  foxx's portrayal of late soul-singer ray charles in ray had already earned him a prestigious golden globe award. swank triumphed for playing a gutsy female boxer in million dollar baby. modest wine country comedy sideways knocked out favourites million dollar baby and the aviator by taking the top prize for best cast performance.  the screen actors guild (sag) represents us film and tv actors. its winners often go on to win oscars. in other nominations, cate blanchett triumphed as the best supporting actress for her role as katharine hepburn in the aviator. veteran actor morgan freeman took the best supporting actor award for playing a prize-fighter turned gym manager in million dollar baby.  "thank you for ray charles for just living so complex and so interesting, and making us all just come together," said foxx, accepting his award in los angeles on saturday.  he also praised the film director: "thank you for taylor hackford for taking a chance with an african-american film. taylor, you're my director of the year." swank, too, was full of praise for her director and co-star clint eastwood. "i bow down to you," swank said to the 74-year-old eastwood. "you are a talent beyond compare. if i'm half the person you are and half the talent you are when i'm 74, i will know that i've accomplished something great."  both foxx and swank are now considered to be among the favourites to get oscars - the hollywood's ultimate prize. however, swank has to overcome a strong challenge from annette bening, a nominee for the theatre farce being julia. meanwhile, ballots for oscars - the hollywood's top honours - were mailed earlier this week to members of the academy of motion picture arts and sciences. the voting is due to end on 22 february - five days before the ceremony. mps criticise child access system  divorced parents seeking access to their children are often disadvantaged by the legal system, mps have said.  the constitutional affairs select committee said parents with custody could exploit delays in the system to stop former partners gaining access. courts should be used as a last resort, but where they are, their orders should be enforced more rigorously, mps said. but they rejected the claim made by some campaign groups that there should be a legal presumption of equal access.  currently the presumption is that the interests of the child are paramount. "an arbitrary 'template' imposed on all families, whatever the needs of the child, would relegate the welfare of individual children to a secondary position," the mps said.  they said the law should be changed to require family courts specifically to take account of the importance of sustaining the relationship between the child and the non-resident parent in contested cases. this would "reassert the rights of non-resident parents to contact with their children, as well as the rights of children to contact with both their parents, while maintaining sufficient flexibility to cope with issues of safety", they said. delays in court hearings and the inability to effectively enforce court orders allowed "a new 'status quo' arrangement for the children to become established by default", they said.  "although the courts rigorously avoid conscious bias, there are considerable grounds for accepting that non-resident parents are frequently disadvantaged by the system as it is administered at present. "given the strong animosity between the parties which is common in contested family cases, we find it hard to believe that tactical delay is not sometimes used to the advantage of resident parents." committee chairman alan beith said the five-month inquiry had been a "complex and emotive" one. "at the moment, far too many contact and residency cases are being dealt with by the courts when they could be better resolved through professional mediation and negotiation," he said. "this situation has to change. the court system should only be used as a last resort, where mediation and negotiation have completely broken down or where issues of abuse or domestic violence need to be dealt with. "this will help to reduce delays and improve the lives of many children across the country." iaaf to rule on greek sprint pair  greek sprinters kostas kenteris and katerina thanou are expected to find out on wednesday if they will be banned for missing drugs tests this summer.  the international association of athletics federations (iaaf) council held a conference call on tuesday and are set to announce their decision. kenteris and thanou could be suspended for up to two years. the duo withdrew from the olympics after missing a test but claimed they had suffered a motorcycle crash. the greek authorities have also brought criminal charges against the sprinters for avoiding a drugs test and faking an accident. their former coach christos tzekos is also facing charges and all three are awaiting a trial date.  however, the iaaf will determine the sprinters' future on the track after carefully considering all the evidence. the sport's ruling body is expected to direct the greek federation in what action it should take against the sprinters. kenteris and thanou can appeal against any decision at the court of arbitration for sport. the sprinters both sent written explanations to the iaaf, which have been taken into account. the iaaf sent an official warning to the sprinters and coach tzekos after they were discovered training in qatar rather than in crete, where they had said they would be. but kenteris and thanou then went on to skip tests in tel aviv and chicago, when they decided to fly back to greece early. just before the olympics, the pair dramatically missed another test in athens before withdrawing from the games. kenteris, 31, won gold in the 200m at the sydney olympics in 2000, where thanou, 29, won silver in the 100m. blind student 'hears in colour'  a blind student has developed software that turns colours into musical notes so that he can read weather maps.  victor wong, a graduate student from hong kong studying at cornell university in new york state, had to read coloured maps of the upper atmosphere as part of his research. to study "space weather" mr wong needed to explore minute fluctuations in order to create mathematical models. a number of solutions were tried, including having a colleague describe the maps and attempting to print them in braille. mr wong eventually hit upon the idea of translating individual colours into music, and enlisted the help of a computer graphics specialist and another student to do the programming work.  "the images have three dimensions and i had to find a way of reading them myself," mr wong told the bbc news website. "for the sake of my own study - and for the sake of blind scientists generally - i felt it would be good to develop software that could help us to read colour images." he tried a prototype version of the software to explore a photograph of a parrot. in order to have an exact reference to the screen, a pen and tablet device is used. the software then assigns one of 88 piano notes to individually coloured pixels - ranging from blue at the lower end of this scale to red at the upper end. mr wong says the application is still very much in its infancy and is only useful for reading images that have been created digitally. "if i took a random picture and scanned it and then used my software to recognise it, it wouldn't work that well."  mr wong has been blind from the age of seven and he thinks that having a "colour memory" makes the software more useful than it would be to a scientist who had never had any vision. "as the notes increase in pitch i know the colour's getting redder and redder, and in my mind's eye a patch of red appears." the colour to music software has not yet been made available commercially, and mr wong believes that several people would have to work together to make it viable. but he hopes that one day it can be developed to give blind people access to photographs and other images. italy to get economic action plan  italian prime minister silvio berlusconi will unveil plans aimed at kickstarting the country's sputtering economy on thursday night in rome.  he will present an "action plan for the development of italy" in a meeting with industrialists and trade union leaders. mr berlusconi is expected to table reforms aimed at boosting research and development (r&d) spending, and the competitiveness of small firms. also in focus will be bankruptcy laws and the slow pace of the legal system. the prime minister is scheduled to start the meeting at 1830 gmt.  the government has been accused of underfunding r&d, making it harder for italy to compete with other european nations and leading to a "brain-drain" of the country's brightest talents. analysts say that hiring and firing staff is still too difficult and expensive, hampering the development of small- and medium-sized businesses. as a result, they say, italy's corporate landscape is filled with numerous smaller companies that are often reluctant to become bigger because of all the extra hassle that would accompany the running of a larger firm. at the same time, bankruptcy laws make it difficult for failed company directors to set up new businesses and emerge from their debts, a situation that is hampering italy's entrepreneurial spirit.  the government says that it has set about tackling the problems, adding that getting growth going was the responsibility of all of italy's 60 million population. according to il sole 24 ore, italy's business newspaper, the government will focus on "opening up markets, infrastructure, research, making more incentives available, bankruptcy law, the slow pace of the justice system".  mr berlusconi has previously promised to cut taxes by 6.5bn euros ($8.6bn; £4.5bn) this year in an effort to get people and companies to spend. he has also promised to cap spending on transport, education and health so as to trim the ballooning budget deficit. italy plans to raise as much as 25bn euros from privatisations in 2005, including a partial flotation of the post office and utility enel. critics argue that these moves do not go far enough and could make italy's problems worse. limiting government spending will lead to job losses, they counter, while the income tax cuts will have a negligible effect on sentiment and ultimately favour the wealthy.  the country has been one of the eurozone's worst economic performers in recent years. growth was 1.1% in 2004, up from just 0.3% in 2003 and 0.4% in 2002 - an improvement but still a long way from ideal. at the same time, business and consumer confidence has dipped and analysts have raised concerns that what little spending there is stems from italians dipping into their savings accounts or using credit cards. without a pick up in national growth, they say, the money could eventually run out, bringing italy's economy to a juddering halt. consumer spending accounts for about two-thirds of italy's economy. spike lee backs student directors  film-maker spike lee says black representation is stronger than ever in cinema and tv but the true power in entertainment lies behind the camera.  the she hate me director urged students at his old atlanta university, morehouse college, to seek "gatekeeper positions" behind the scenes. lee told them to "work up the corporate ladder because everybody can't be an actor, everybody can't make a record". he spoke as part of a discussion panel, then led a retrospective of his films.  returning to his old university, which educates only african american students, lee discussed the challenges facing black people in the entertainment industry. "even denzel (washington), he's getting $20m a movie. but when it comes time to do a movie, he has to go to one of those gatekeepers," lee said. he told aspiring young film-makers in the audience not to ignore non-traditional routes to getting a movie made, including raising funds independently and releasing films straight to dvd. "it's a huge market," the 47-year-old director said. "it's not something that should be looked upon as a stepchild." lee has made more than 25 films, including jungle fever, do the right thing, summer of sam and 1986 hit she's gotta have it. nuclear strike 'key terror risk'  the uk and us must realise they cannot prevent all terror attacks and should focus on making sure they are not nuclear strikes, says a top academic.  amitai etzioni, a key influence on new labour thinking, says the us emphasis on an "axis of evil" is misplaced. the priority should instead be on "failing states", including russia and pakistan, who cannot properly control their nuclear material, he argues. his report demands a major overhaul of world rules on nuclear technology.  professor etzioni was a senior adviser to president carter's white house and is the guru behind communitarian ideas which influenced the development of blairite third way politics. in a report for the foreign policy centre think tank, he says a nuclear terrorist attack is the main danger faced by many nations.  "attempts to defend against it by hardening domestic targets cannot work, nor can one rely on pre-emption by taking the war to the terrorists before they attack," he says. that means there is an urgent need to curb terrorists' access to nuclear arms and the materials used to make them. "we must recognise that we will be unable to stop all attacks and thus ensure terrorists will not be able to strike with weapons of mass destruction," prof etzioni continues.  he suggests so-called rogue states such as iran and north korea are less of a problem than "failed and failing states", which are more likely to be a source of nuclear materials. he names russia as the "failing state" of gravest concern as it has an estimated 90% of all fissile material outside america. and he is also worried about pakistan after one of its top nuclear scientists, abdul qadeer khan, admitted leaking nuclear secrets. prof etzioni criticises the us for overlooking those reports, suggesting it was done in return for pakistani help in hunting osama bin laden. "this is like letting a serial killer go because he promised to catch some jay-walkers," he says.    - upgrading security at nuclear arms stores as a temporary measure   - creating a new global safety authority to tackle nuclear terrorism, using the intelligence links established in the wake of 11 september - backed by the united nations' authority   - encouraging, pressuring and using "all available means" to persuade countries to switch their highly-enriched uranium for less dangerous less-enriched uranium   - when possible, taking fissile material away from failing states to safe havens where it can be blended down or converted   - compelling "failing and rogue states", and eventually all states, to destroy their nuclear bombs. holmes starts 2005 with gb events  kelly holmes will start 2005 with a series of races in britain.  holmes will make her first track appearance on home soil since winning double olympic gold in january's norwich union international in glasgow. she will also run in the grand prix in birmingham in february and may defend her indoor aaa 800m title in sheffield earlier that month. "i am still competitive and still want to win," she said. "i'm an athlete and i can't wait to get back on the track." she added: "these events are also a great opportunity to thank the british public for the enormous levels of support they have given me from the moment i stepped off that plane from greece." the glasgow meeting will see holmes compete over 1500m in a five-way match against sweden, france, russia and italy. xbox 2 may be unveiled in summer  details of the next generation of microsoft's xbox games console - codenamed xenon - will most likely be unveiled in may, according to reports.  it was widely expected that gamers would get a sneak preview of xbox's successor at the game developers conference (gdc) in march. but a microsoft spokeswoman confirmed that it would not be at gdc. sony, microsoft and nintendo are all expected to release their more powerful machines in the next 18 months. the next xbox console is expected to go on sale at the end of the year, but very few details about it have been released. it is thought that the machine may be unveiled at the electronic entertainment expo (e3) in los angeles, which takes place in may, according to a reuters news agency report. e3 concentrates on showing off the latest in gaming to publishers, marketers and retailers. the gdc is aimed more at game developers. microsoft chief, bill gates, used the gdc event to unveil the original xbox five years ago. since its launch, microsoft has sold 19.9 million units worldwide.  at the consumer electronics show earlier this year, there was very little mention of the next generation gaming machine. in his keynote speech, mr gates only referred to it as playing an essential part of his vision of the digital lifestyle.  but the battle between the rival consoles to win gamers' hearts and thumbs will be extremely hard-fought. sony has traditionally dominated the console market with its playstation 2. but earlier this year, microsoft said it had reached a european milestone, selling five million consoles since its european launch in march 2002. hit games like halo 2, which was released in november, helped to buoy the sales figures.  gamers are looking forward to the next generation of machines because they will have much more processing and graphical power.  they are also likely to pack in more features and technologies that make them more central as entertainment and communications hubs. although details of playstation 3, xenon, and nintendo's so-called revolution, are yet to be finalised, developers are already working on titles. rory armes, studio general manager for games giant electronic arts (ea) in europe, recently told the bbc news website in an interview that ea was beginning to get a sense of the capabilities of the new machines. microsoft had delivered development kits to ea, but he said the company was still waiting on sony and nintendo's kits. but, he added, the playstation 3 was rumoured to have "a little more under the hood [than xbox 2]". weak dollar hits reuters  revenues at media group reuters slipped 11% during 2004, mainly due to the weakness of the dollar, the group said.  the company said it was optimistic about growth even as revenues slipped 11% from £3.24bn ($6.13bn) in 2003 to £2.89bn in 2004. reuters beat profit forecasts, posting a 52% rise in profits for the year to £198m from the £130m seen a year earlier. reuters also beat its savings target for 2004, delivering £234m of cuts. under its three-year fast forward turnaround plan it had aimed to save £220m during the 12 months to 31 december.  reuters also managed to slow a decline in underlying revenues to 5.4% from 10.2% in 2003 and cut its debt back to £160m from £610m a year earlier. the news and financial data seller said the year had begun well, adding it expected "further gradual improvement" in the second quarter of the year after good january sales. it added it was planning to deliver a further £105m of savings over the coming year - but said it expects to be hit with an £80m restructuring charge to pay for the cost of moving from fleet street to new headquarters in london at canary wharf. "improving customer relationships, more competitive products and continued strong cost discipline position us well for 2005," chief executive tom glocer said, adding the company was beginning "to look beyond recovery to growth". horror film heads us box office  a low-budget horror film produced by evil dead director sam raimi has topped the north american box office.  boogeyman, which focuses on a man who returns to his childhood home to confront his traumatic past, took $19.5m (£14.9m) in three days. last week's chart-topper, the robert de niro thriller hide and seek, fell to number four. other new entries included the wedding date, a comedy starring will and grace's debra messing, at number two.  the road-trip comedy are we there yet? and multiple oscar nominee million dollar baby completed the top five. other oscar contenders, including the aviator and sideways, continued to perform strongly at the box office. the aviator has taken $75m (£40m) so far, while sideways has taken $46.8m (£24.8m) in a more limited release.  boogeyman, which cost just $7m (£3.5m) to make, performed well even though it was not screened to critics before release - normally a sign that a film will get bad reviews or perform poorly at the box office. "i certainly believe it's a genre where people are going to be more moved by the marketing materials for the movie than by what the critics say," said rory bruer, head of distribution for sony pictures, which released the film in the us. overall the weekend box office was strong despite the fact that it was american football's super bowl weekend - a time when cinema admissions generally fall. this year, the top 12 films grossed around $91m (£48.3m), compared to 2004's super bowl weekend when the total box office was $73.4m (£38.9m). russian ex-spy on hunger strike  an ex-russian intelligence officer who risked his life spying for mi6 is entering the seventh week of a hunger strike near 10 downing street.  viktor makarov, 50, claims he has been betrayed by the british authorities, who promised he would live like an "average british citizen". but despite a £65,000 settlement four years ago, he says he has been denied defector status and a decent pension. other ex-russian spies have been given civil service pensions. "hunger strike is a weapon of last resort. it can work only with determination and of course the realisation of the righteousness of your case - without that it will not work," mr makarov told the bbc's newsnight programme. "since i came to this country two batches of promises have been made and broken one after the other."  oleg gordievsky, a senior kgb officer who became a secret agent for the british, said he was "very happy" with the way the government have treated him since him since he defected in 1985. commenting on mr makarov's case, he said: "the british state is not a fat cow - it is impossible to come here and demand give me more money every week." but mr makarov's case has been backed by david kahn - a former yale historian, and a leading expert on code-breaking, who has confirmed his information was valuable to the western allies. "i believe the government of the united kingdom, which in that respect was probably the same as most other power authorities - took the information that victor makarov had, wrung him dry and left him to hang out in the cold," mr kahn said.  mr makarov joined the kgb in 1970s russia, as an idealistic 20 year-old. one of his fellow pupils at intelligence school was vladimir putin. at kgb headquarters in moscow, he was posted to the secret 16th directorate - which decoded intercepted diplomatic traffic from the west. by the 1980s he had risen to the rank of senior lieutenant - and was privy to the thoughts of western powers. but he had became deeply disenchanted with the soviet regime - fuelled by its repression both at home and in poland.  through his english teacher, he made an approach to m16 - and then began passing secrets to the british intelligence service. he spied for mi6 for two years before being betrayed by a friend and sent to perm 35 - a soviet hard labour camp in the artic circle. within a week of his release in 1992, he made contact with the british authorities he'd been spying for, who arranged a meeting between him and an mi6 agent in latvia. he was given a false passport, and he says, promised that he would be given the chance to live like an average uk citizen. but after arriving in london 13 years ago, he feels this promise has not been fulfilled. after long periods of living in bedsits, with deteriorating health, four years ago he took legal action against the government - and settled for £65,000 to buy a small house. but he says he will remain on hunger strike until he receives a decent pension and the right to work, something he feels he has been denied because the authorities do not trust him. government sources told the bbc they had reached a final settlement with the former spy, which he has been able to appeal to security and intelligence tribunals. gebrselassie in london triple bid  double olympic 10,000m champion haile gebrselassie will race in the london marathon for the next three years.  the ethiopian legend won sunday's almeria half-marathon in spain on his return from an operation on his achilles tendon. he was third in london in 2002 in his first serious attempt at the marathon. "it is a coup for us to secure haile's presence for the next three years and it guarantees a quality race," said race director david bedford. gebrselassie will face olympic champion stefano baldini, world champion jaouad gharib, and arch-rival paul tergat, the current world record holder. "if i didn't think i could win i would not be here," said gebrselassie, who has set world records on 18 occasions in his illustrious career and is keen to add the marathon record to his collection. "there are a lot of fantastic runners in the race but i shall be doing my utmost to upset them." microsoft launches its own search  microsoft has unveiled the finished version of its home-grown search engine.  the now formally launched msn search site takes the training wheels off the test version unveiled in november 2003. the revamped engine indexes more pages than before, can give direct answers to factual questions, and features tools to help people create detailed queries. microsoft faces challenges establishing itself as a serious search site because of the intense competition for queries.  google still reigns supreme as the site people turn to most often when they go online to answer a query, keep up with news or search for images. but in the last year google has faced greater competition than ever for users as old rivals, such as yahoo and microsoft, and new entrants such as amazon and blinkx, try to grab some of the searching audience for themselves. this renewed interest has come about because of the realisation that many of the things people do online begin with a search for information - be it for a particular web page, recipe, book, gadget, news story, image or anything else. microsoft is keen to make its home-grown search engine a significant rival to google. to generate its corpus of data, microsoft has indexed 5 billion webpages and claims to update its document index every two days - more often than rivals. the microsoft search engine can also answer specific queries directly rather than send people to a page that might contain the answer.  for its direct answer feature, microsoft is calling on its encarta encyclopaedia to provide answers to questions about definitions, facts, calculations, conversions and solutions to equations. tony macklin, director of product at ask jeeves, pointed out that its search engine has been answering specific queries this way since april 2003. "the major search providers have moved beyond delivering only algorithmic search, so in many ways microsoft is following the market," he said. tools sitting alongside the msn search engine allow users to refine results to specific websites, countries, regions or languages. microsoft is also using so-called "graphic equalisers" that let people adjust the relevance of terms to get results that are more up-to-date or more popular. the company said that user feedback from earlier test versions had been used to refine the workings of the finished system. the test, or beta, version of the msn search engine unveiled in november had a few teething troubles. on its first day many new users keen to try it were greeted with a page that said the site had been overwhelmed. hyundai to build new india plant  south korea's hyundai motor has announced that it plans to build a second plant in india to meet the country's growing demand for cars.  the company didn't give details of its investment but it said the new plant would produce 150,000 cars a year. this will boost the annual production capacity of the company - india's second-largest car manufacturer - to 400,000 units. hyundai expects its sales in india to grow 16% to 250,000 in 2005. by 2010, it expects to nearly double sales to 400,000 cars. the new plant will be built close to the existing one in chennai, in the southern province of tamil nadu.  south korea's top car maker estimates that the indian market will grow 15% this year, to 920,000 vehicles, reaching 1.6 million vehicles by 2010. demand in india has been driven by the poor state of public transport and the very low level of car ownership, analysts said. figures show that currently only eight people per thousand are car owners. "we desperately need to expand our production in order to meet growing demand in the indian auto market, which is growing over 12 percent every year, and to top our competitors," chairman chung mong-koo said in the statement. he said the company plans to use india as a base for exports to europe, latin america and the middle east. the company - which controls half of the south korean's market - aims to become a global top five auto maker by 2010. mumbai bombs movie postponed  the release of a film about the mumbai (bombay) blasts in 1993 has been postponed following protests by those on trial for the bombings.  investigating the blasts which killed more than 250 people and wounded 1,000, the film black friday had been due to open across india on friday. but 36 people accused in connection with the blasts said it should not be screened until the trial is over. mumbai high court postponed the film's launch until 3 february.  black friday is based upon the novel of the same name written by journalist s hussain zaidi, which looks at the 15 explosions which rocked mumbai on 12 march 1993. director anurag kashyap said the film's release should not be delayed as the book has already been on sale for two years. "if you have not gone against the book, then how can you go against the movie?" mr kashyap's lawyer mihir desai said. this is the second time that those accused in connection with the blasts have sought legal intervention regarding the film.  they previously asked that a line from the movie's poster, which claimed the film portrayed "the true story of the bombay bomb blasts", be removed. their lawyer, majeed memon, said: "we had argued that how can a film say it is telling the true story when the court itself is struggling to find the truth? "so we said they should remove the line from their promotional posters and they did give us an assurance that they would do so." the mumbai bombings case is one of india's longest-running trials. a special court was set up to hear the case and regular hearings have taken place there for the last nine years, with more than six hundred witnesses questioned. lib dems 'to target stamp duty'  the liberal democrats are promising to raise the stamp duty threshold if they win the general election, in a bid to court first-time house buyers.  vince cable, the party's treasury spokesman, said raising the threshold to £150,000 would prevent over 400,000 home-buyers from paying the tax. he said first-time buyers were being "squeezed out" of the housing market. the labour party said the liberal democrats needed to explain how they would pay for the plan. the plan forms part of a wider lib dems policy to encourage first time buyers and those on lower incomes into the market.  under the proposals, the average saving for a new buyer would be more than £1,000, according to mr cable. "first time buyers are being squeezed out of the housing market not only by higher house prices but also by being swept into the stamp duty net," he said. "by failing to uprate the stamp duty threshold gordon brown has hit first time buyers and those on low incomes the hardest. "by pledging to increase the threshold to £150,000, the liberal democrats will make it possible for many first time buyers to buy a property without facing this tax." paul boateng mp, labour's chief secretary to the treasury, said: "the lib dems' sums don't add up. "they can have no credibility until they can say how they would fund their ever growing list of tax and spending commitments." mr cable will publish his "alternative budget" on monday. thanou bullish over drugs hearing  katerina thanou is confident she and fellow sprinter kostas kenteris will not be punished for missing drugs tests before the athens olympics.  the greek pair appeared at a hearing on saturday which will determine whether their provisional bans from athletics' ruling body the iaaf should stand. "after five months we finally had the chance to give explanations. i am confident and optimistic," said thanou. "we presented new evidence to the committee that they were not aware of."  the athletes' lawyer grigoris ioanidis said he believed the independent disciplinary committee set up by the greek athletics federation (segas) would find them innocent. "we are almost certain that the charges will be dropped," said ioanidis.  "we believe that we have presented [a case] that the charges are unreasonable." thanou, the 2000 olympic women's 100m silver medallist, and sydney 200m champion kenteris were suspended by the iaaf for missing three drugs tests. the third was supposed to take place on the eve of the athens games last august, but the pair could not be found in the athletes' village. they were later taken to hospital after claiming to have been involved in a motorcycle accident. thanou's coach christos tzekos was also suspended by the iaaf. "we were asked [by the disciplinary committee] all kinds of questions about the night of 12 august," said tzekos. "we did not leave any gaps. as far as i am concerned there is no such issue [of refusing to be tested], and i am very optimistic." tzekos, thanou and kenteris, who have all denied the charges, can expect a decision within a month. "deliberations will start after some additional documents are brought in by thursday," said committee chairman kostas panagopoulos. "i estimate that the final ruling will be issued by the end of february." moving mobile improves golf swing  a mobile phone that recognises and responds to movements has been launched in japan.  the motion-sensitive phone - officially titled the v603sh - was developed by sharp and launched by vodafone's japanese division. devised mainly for mobile gaming, users can also access other phone functions using a pre-set pattern of arm movements. the phone will allow golf fans to improve their swing via a golfing game.  those who prefer shoot-'em-ups will be able to use the phone like a gun to shoot the zombies in the mobile version of sega's house of the dead. the phone comes with a tiny motion-control sensor, a computer chip that responds to movement.  other features include a display screen that allows users to watch tv and can rotate 180 degrees. it also doubles up as an electronic musical instrument. users have to select a sound from a menu that includes clapping, tambourine and maracas and shake their phone to create a beat. it is being recommended for the karaoke market. the phone will initially be available in japan only and is due to go on sale in mid-february. the new gadget could make for interesting people-watching among japanese commuters, who are able to access their mobiles on the subway. fishing afficiandos in south korea are already using a phone that allows them to simulate the movement of a rod. the ph-s6500 phone, dubbed a sports-leisure gadget, was developed by korean phone giant pantech and can also be used by runners to measure calorie consumption and distance run. sa unveils 'more for all' budget  the south african government has put tax cuts and increased social spending at the centre of its latest budget.  aiming to both stir economic growth and aid the country's poor, finance minister trevor manuel said the focus of the 2005 budget was "more for all". the tax cuts target firms and individuals, cutting corporate tax from 30% to 29% and offering income tax cuts worth 6.8bn rand ($1.2bn; £910m). spending on health and education will rise by 9.4% and 8.1% respectively. spending on housing and sanitation will rise by 12%. all the spending increases will run over the next three years.  unveiling the 418bn-rand budget to parliament, mr manuel said the south african economy had grown by an average of 3.2% over the past four years, slightly below the african average of 4%.  he predicted that the south african economy would grow by 4.3% in 2005 and 4.2% in 2006. mr manuel added that inflation fell to 4.3% in 2004 and is expected to remain at between 3% and 6% from now until at least 2008, helped by interest rates which are at their lowest level in 24 years. given that both corporate and personal taxes are being cut - under the new measures, those earning less than 35,000 rand a year will be exempt from income tax - the extra 22.3bn rand in social spending will be partly met by higher fuel, tobacco and alcohol taxes.  "in this budget, the focus is on more for all, not more for some, and not a hell of a lot more for a few, but spread across all of south africa," said mr manuel. he said that the economic situation was a "marked improvement" on the position at the end of apartheid, but acknowledged that more needed to be done to improve the lives and livelihoods of the disadvantaged. about 280,000 jobs a year have been created in south africa since 2000 but unemployment remains high, currently close to 30%. economist colen garrow said the budget looked as if it would stimulate economic growth. "it's pleasant to see the cut in company taxes, it's a good incentive for business," he said. dvd review: i, robot  only one man recognises that robots are a threat to humanity - but that's fine because it only takes one man to save the day in the thriller i, robot.  will smith co-stars alongside more cgi robots than you can count and as a thrill-a-minute kind of action film, it's perfectly adequate. you'll have forgotten it all tomorrow but you'll have a fun night with the film and all the extras. there is a one-disc version that has commentaries and a making of but the two-disc adds more. unusually for this kind of film, the extras don't solely concentrate on the special effects. they're covered but there's also a general production diary and a post-production feature.  remember the national lottery's draw machines arthur and guinevere? they were more accurate than this glossy hollywood version of the tale.  but as long as you're not expecting a documentary, live with it: king arthur is a fun, exciting, totally shallow experience and looks excellent. clive owen is the brooding king, keira knightly rises above her costume and ray winstone gives it all some grit. it's at its best in its battle scenes which are well done and are also the best part of the making of extra.  less flashy than a david attenborough show and less detailed than a simon schama one, the bbc series british isles nevertheless turned out to be quite engrossing. admit it, the fact that this is one of the shows alan titchmarsh left ground force to present did mean that you expected something equally frothy. but titchmarsh turns out to know his subject and the sight of our present-day landscape being peeled back to reveal the past was fascinating. he's now written an accompanying book, too. kelly trails new discipline power  teachers could get more powers to remove unruly pupils from classes under a "zero tolerance" drive, education secretary ruth kelly has suggested.  ms kelly told the bbc progress had been made against severely disruptive children but parents were still worried about lower level problems. the minister also confirmed she received "spiritual support" from the catholic movement opus dei. but she denied her faith meant she would refuse key government jobs.  the conservatives have made school discipline one of their five priority areas in the run-up to the next general election. ms kelly is expected to announce her plans on the issue in the next fortnight. she told bbc one's breakfast with frost: "it is really important to support head teachers and teachers in tackling disruption in the classroom. "we have made huge progress on the really difficult cases, the pupils who have severely disruptive behaviour.  "but quite rightly what teachers are concerned about and what parents are concerned about is that this lower level disruption that goes on in the classroom now is tackled. "i would like to see the teacher being able to remove disruptive children from the classroom completely and have either alternative provision within the school or indeed off the school and may be working together with other schools in a particular area to provide that provision." it is thought the plans may distinguish between excluding pupils from schools and taking them out of mainstream classes. head teachers can currently exclude pupils who commit or threaten violence in school, who sexually abuse pupils or other people, who sell illegal drugs or who have persistent and malicious disruptive behaviour. ms kelly entered the cabinet last month in the reshuffle forced by the resignation of the then home secretary david blunkett. her links to opus dei, which means "work of god" in latin, have provoked controversy.  critics say the organisation, which adheres strictly to catholic teachings, is secretive and elitist but its members reject such claims. asked if she was a member of the group, ms kelly said: "i do have spiritual support from opus dei and that is right. "but those are private spiritual matters and i'm sure you'll respect that politicians are entitled to a private life." she categorically denied reports that her beliefs on issues such as contraception would make her refuse to serve as a health or international development minister. her collective responsibility as a cabinet minister meant she also took responsibility for policies in those areas, she argued.  the government has yet to issue its official response to the tomlinson review, which recommended absorbing existing exam qualifications into a diploma. ms kelly said reforms should build on gcses and a-levels. her comments did not impress tory shadow education secretary tim collins. "ruth kelly wants to ditch the tomlinson report on exam structures but has absolutely no idea what to put in its place," he said. "she also talks of improving discipline but cannot make her mind up how. this is an all talk agenda that lets down children, teachers and parents." holmes is hit by hamstring injury  kelly holmes has been forced out of this weekend's european indoor athletics championships after picking up a hamstring injury during training.  the double olympic champion said: "i am very disappointed that i have been forced to withdraw. "i can hardly walk at the moment and i won't be able to do any running for two or three weeks although i'll be keeping fit as best i can." holmes will have now have intensive treatment in south africa.  the 34-year-old made a cautious start to the season but looked back to her best when she stormed to the 1,000m title at the birmingham grand prix 10 days ago. after that race and more progress in training, holmes revealed she had decided to compete at the european indoors before her plans were wrecked last weekend. "on saturday night i pulled my hamstring running the last bend on my final 200m of the night," said holmes. "i was going really, really well when i felt a massive spasm in my left leg and my hamstring blew. "i saw the doctor here and he has said it is not serious but it's frustrating missing madrid when i knew i was in great shape." holmes has now been advised by her coach margot jennings not to rush back into training and it is unlikely she will compete again until the summer. helen clitheroe now goes to madrid as the only british competitor in the women's 1500m while there will be no representative in the 800m. junk e-mails on relentless rise  spam traffic is up by 40%, putting the total amount of e-mail that is junk up to an astonishing 90%.  the figures, from e-mail management firm email systems, will alarm firms attempting to cope with the amount of spam in their in-boxes. while virus traffic has slowed down, denial of service attacks are on the increase according to the firm. virus mail accounts for just over 15% of all e-mail traffic analysis by the firm has found.  it is no longer just multi-nationals that are in danger of so-called denial of service attacks, in which websites are bombarded by requests for information and rendered inaccessible. email systems refers to a small uk-based engineering firm, which received a staggering 12 million e-mails in january. the type of spam currently being sent has subtlety altered in the last few months, according to email systems analysis. half of spam received since christmas has been health-related with gambling and porn also on the increase. scam mails, offering ways to make a quick buck, have declined by 40%. "january is clearly a month when consumers are less motivated to purchase financial products or put money into dubious financial opportunities," said neil hammerton, managing director of email systems. "spammers seem to have adapted their output to reflect this, focussing instead on medically motivated and pornographic offers, presumably intentionally intended to coincide with what is traditionally considered to be the bleakest month in the calendar," he said. bmw drives record sales in asia  bmw has forecast sales growth of at least 10% in asia this year after registering record sales there in 2004.  the luxury carmaker saw strong sales of its three marques - bmw, mini and rolls-royce - in asia last year after the launch of three new models. the company, which is vying with mercedes-benz for the title of leading premium carmaker, is confident about its prospects for the region in 2005. it is launching a revamped version of its 3-series saloon class next month.  bmw sold nearly 95,000 cars in asia last year, up 2.6% on 2003.  bmw-brand sales rose 2.3% to 80,600 while sales of mini models rose 3.6% to 14,800. there was also a significant increase in sales of rolls-royces on the continent. bmw sold more than 100 of the iconic models compared with just ten the previous year. the german carmaker is aiming to boost annual sales in asia to 150,000 by 2008. "here in asia, we consider a double-digit increase in retail on the order of 10 to 15% to be realistic on the basis of current features," said helmut panke, bmw's group chief executive.  china remains the main area of concern for bmw after sales there fell 16% last year. however, bmw is hopeful of a much better year in 2005 as its direct investment in china begins to pay dividends. the company only began assembling luxury high-powered sedans in china in 2003. 2004 was generally a good year for bmw, which saw revenues from its core car-making operations rise 11%. brando 'rejected godfather role'  late film star marlon brando is said to have repeatedly turned down his oscar-winning role in the godfather.  the actor's friend budd schulberg told vanity fair magazine that brando's assistant suggested he read the novel. the actor repeatedly refused, throwing the book at her and saying: "for the last time, i won't glorify the mafia". but brando, who died last july at the age of 80, eventually took the role of don corleone, winning him an oscar in 1973 which he notoriously refused. the actor sent a young woman dressed in native american costume to refuse the award on his behalf and to draw attention to the plight of native americans.  schulberg told the magazine that brando's assistant realised the film star had warmed to the idea of the godfather role when he sported a drawn-on pencil moustache and asked: "how do i look?" his assistant, alice marchak, said that he looked like george raft, an actor famed for playing gangsters on the silver screen. every time she went to see brando from then on, she added, he was wearing a different gangster-style moustache. brando was asked to screen test for the role in the godfather, as studio executives were said to be reluctant for the actor to play the part following problems on the set of brando's previous film mutiny on the bounty . in fact brando's academy award triumph revived his career. the actor was nominated for an oscar the following year for his role in bernardo bertolucci's last tango in paris. before his death, brando granted gaming company electronic arts the rights to use his voice and image in a video game based on the godfather film and book and recorded voice-overs which closely resembled his role as don corleone. brando's co-stars from the godfather, james caan and robert duvall, will also reprise their roles for the video game, it was confirmed on wednesday. citizenship event for 18s touted  citizenship ceremonies could be introduced for people celebrating their 18th birthday, charles clarke has said.  the idea will be tried as part of an overhaul of the way government approaches "inclusive citizenship" particularly for ethnic minorities. a pilot scheme based on ceremonies in australia will start in october. mr clarke said it would be a way of recognising young people reaching their voting age when they also gain greater independence from parents. britain's young black and asian people are to be encouraged to learn about the nation's heritage as part of the government's new race strategy which will also target specific issues within different ethnic minority groups. officials say the home secretary wants young people to feel they belong and to understand their "other cultural identities" alongside being british. the launch follows a row about the role of faith schools in britain. on monday school inspection chief david bell, accused some islamic schools of failing to teach pupils about their obligations to british society.  the muslim council of britain said ofsted boss mr bell's comments were "highly irresponsible". the home office started work on its community cohesion and race equality strategy last year and the outcome, launched on wednesday, is called 'improving opportunity, strengthening society'. it is aimed at tackling racism, exclusion, segregation and the rise in political and religious extremism. "it represents a move away from the one-size-fits-all approach to focus on specifics within cultural groups," said a home office spokesman. "it is not right to say that if you are from a black or ethnic minority group you must be disadvantaged." the spokesman highlighted specific issues that affect particular communities - for example people of south asian origin tend to suffer from a high incidence of heart disease.  "it is about drilling down and focusing on these sorts of problems," the spokesman added. launching the initiative mr clarke said enormous progress had been made on race issues in recent years. he added: "but while many members of black and minority ethnic communities are thriving, some may still find it harder to succeed in employment or gain access to healthcare, education or housing. "this strategy sets out the government's commitment to doing more to identify and respond to the specific needs of minorities in our society." some 8% of the uk population described themselves as coming from a non-white ethnic minority in the 2001 census.  the downing street strategy unit in 2003 said people from indian and chinese backgrounds were doing well on average, often outperforming white people in education and earnings. but those of pakistani, bangladeshi and black caribbean origin were significantly more likely to be unemployed and earn less than whites, it said. the home office wants more initiatives which try to promote a sense of belonging by encouraging young people to take part in voluntary work. the programmes are designed to support the citizenship lessons already taking place in schools. kluft impressed by sotherton form  olympic heptathlon champion carolina kluft was full of admiration for britain's kelly sotherton as the pair prepared to clash in birmingham.  both will be in action on friday in the 60m hurdles and long jump ahead of the european indoor championships later this month in madrid. sotherton finished third behind the swede in athens, and kluft said: "i knew about her, she's a great girl. "she looked very good early in the season and was competing really well." kluft showed impressive early-season form on tuesday in stockholm's ge galan meeting, winning the sprint hurdles, the long jump and the 400m. sotherton has also displayed promise, with a new high jump personal best in sheffield at the combined norwich union european trials and aaa championships, and a second place in the long jump behind jade johnson. sporting rivals go to extra time  the current slew of sports games offers unparalleled opportunities for fans who like to emulate on-field action without ever moving from the couch.  the two giants in the field - espn and ea sports - have been locked in a heavyweight battle for years. the latter is the world's largest games manufacturer. years of experience mean that the titles in their steady flow of sport sims are finely honed, massively entertaining and ooze flair. sports broadcaster espn, meanwhile, has leant its name to a series of games that are similarly classy but lower in profile and price. but that status quo was changed forever - or for the next 15 years at least - by a deal earlier this year when espn sold ea the rights to its tv branding and on-air talent, meaning the espn games presently developed by sega will have to come to and end in their present form.  it was a massive-money deal that not only raised eyebrows but stirred active indignation in many quarters, with fans concerned that it is set to enable ea to monopolise the sports gaming landscape to an unhealthy degree. some particularly disgruntled fans set up an online petition that notched more than 18,000 virtual signatures. many of those clicking to complain were already rankled, for the espn coup happened just weeks after ea had pulled off another enormous licensing deal, controversially giving them exclusive rights to teams and personnel from america&#191;s national football league (nfl). so, will the sega - espn range be missed? a key reason for answering "yes" is that liking or disliking a sports game regularly comes down to personal taste, and having some options available always proves hugely handy. online soccer fans will testify to that, between bouts of arguing over which high-profile title rules supreme out of the similar-yet-hugely-different fifa 2005 and pro evolution soccer 4. on the same note, the espn 2k5 and ea sports games have so little to choose between them that picking favourites will come down to players' personal preferences and spending budget rather than any technical elements. taking hockey and basketball as examples, both publishers' efforts are phenomenally entertaining and fairly accessible. they also both look awesome, with the sega / espn versions perhaps shading things on a graphical front.  in terms of gameplay, i marginally preferred ea's nba live 2005 for basketball, and was more satisfied ice hockey-wise by espn's nhl 2k5. the espn games are a touch more arcade-like in look and feel and are slightly easier to get into, although like their rivals, they also offer a dizzyingly-extensive array of in-game tricks and overall challenge modes that should be enough to quench thirsts of even the most die-hard of sports fans. perhaps the most interesting aspect of the espn deal will be seeing how it affects the presentation of ea's future titles. the front-end decoration of ea's games has become something of an art-form in itself, loaded with slick visuals and oodles of licensed music. they are also immediately identifiable as coming from the ea stable, and the inevitable compulsion to add an espn look will no doubt change that in various ways. what is a shame is that the espn titles took similar care about framing the gameplay with an authentic setting - their preambles look and sound much like they would on tv. they are neat and excellent-value games in their current form, and combining them with ea's own established brand should produce a truly formidable beast. economy 'stronger than forecast'  the uk economy probably grew at a faster rate in the third quarter than the 0.4% reported, according to bank of england deputy governor rachel lomax.  private sector business surveys suggest a stronger economy than official estimates, ms lomax said. other surveys collectively show a rapid slowdown in uk house price growth, she pointed out. this means that despite a strong economic growth, base rates will probably stay on hold at 4.75%. official data comes from the office for national statistics (ons). though reliable, ons data takes longer to publish, so now the boe is calling for faster delivery of data so it can make more effective policy decisions. "recent work by the bank has shown that private sector surveys add value, even when preliminary ons estimates are available," ms lomax said in a speech to the north wales business club.  the ons is due to publish its second estimate of third quarter growth on friday. "the mpc judges that overall growth was a little higher in the third quarter than the official data currently indicate," ms lomax said. the bank said successful monetary policy depends on having good information. rachel lomax cited the late 1980s as an example of a time when weak economic figures were published, but substantially revised upwards years later.  "the statistical fog surrounding the true state of the economy has proved a particularly potent breeding ground for policy errors in the past," she said. improving the quality of national statistics is the single the best way of making sure the monetary policy committee (mpc) makes the right decisions, she said. the bank of england is working in tandem with the ons to improve the quality and speed of delivery of data. her remarks follow criticism from the house of lords economic affairs committee, which said the mpc had held interest rates too high given that inflation was way below the 2% target.  a slowdown in the housing market and this year's surge in oil prices has made economic forecasting all the more tricky, leading to a more uncertain outlook. "this year rising oil prices and a significant slowdown in the housing market have awoken bad memories of the 1970s and 1980s," ms lomax said. "the mpc will be doing well if it can achieve the same stability over the next decade as we have enjoyed over the past 10 years." decisions on interest rates are made after the mpc gathers together the range of indicators available every month. the clearest signals come when all indicators are pointing the same direction, ms lomax intimated. "in economic assessment, there is safety in numbers." dutch watch van gogh's last film  the last film to be made by the slain dutch director theo van gogh, called 06/05, has been premiered in the hague.  members of van gogh's family and celebrities attended the screening of 06/05, based on the murder of the anti-immigration politician pim fortuyn. van gogh was shot and stabbed to death in amsterdam six weeks ago. a dutch-moroccan man suspected of radical islamist links has been charged. the killing, and fortuyn's death in 2002, convulsed the netherlands. many dutch people have questioned their country's self-image as a peaceful, tolerant nation in the wake of the murders, which triggered heated debate about immigration.  an animal rights activist was sentenced to 18 years in prison last year for killing fortuyn. earlier this year, van gogh made a film accusing islam of promoting violence against women. it caused outrage among muslims and death threats were made against him. the film 06/05 will become available on the internet on wednesday and go on general release in dutch cinemas in january. van gogh's movie mixes real images of the day of fortuyn's murder with a fictional plot about dutch intelligence services conspiring to silence the politician. the story unfolds through the eyes of a freelance photographer who unwittingly takes pictures revealing the involvement of dutch authorities in fortuyn's murder. photographer jim de booy then goes on the run from secret service agents who burgle his home and threaten his family. england children's tsar appointed  the first children's commissioner for england has been appointed.  great ormond street hospital professor of child health, al aynsley-green, was chosen by the government and will start the £100,000-a-year job immediately. he will oversee a £2.5m annual budget and have the power to look into "any matter relating to the interests and well-being of children". prof aynsley-green has also been the national clinical director for children in the department of health. he promised to make sure that children's opinions "count".  "i will be drawing on my experience of working with children and young people to help ensure that those with the power to improve children's lives do live up to their responsibilities. "i want all children and young people to know that they can approach me to discuss any matter that affects them, knowing that i will value their opinion." education secretary ruth kelly said prof aynsley-green would "strengthen the voice of children and young people". prof aynsley-green was a lecturer at oxford university, trained at guy's hospital medical school, university of london; oriel college, oxford; and in switzerland. he is described as "a proud grandfather" of four. scotland, wales and northern ireland already have children's commissioners. what now for kelly holmes?  last april, kelly holmes spoke to the bbc sport website about her loneliness, her fight to stay fit and her decision not to contest both the 800m and 1500m at the olympics.  it just goes to show even the most meticulous and measured athletes cannot predict what fate has in store for them. four months later, holmes stormed to double olympic gold and has since been made a dame, won the bbc sport personality of the year and written a book whilst still finding time to coach aspiring athletes. with so much time spent in the spotlight, holmes has increasingly dropped hints that her ambition on the track has begun to wilt. and when asked about her plans for both the indoor and outdoor seasons ahead, the 34-year-old has repeatedly chosen to tick the "don't know" box. holmes has now pulled out of this weekend's european indoor championships, where she was selected for both the 800m and 1500m, because of a hamstring injury. but should we be surprised if the olympic champion over both those distances decides she just does not feel like racing anymore? "well, it's a lot easier being the double olympic champion, being feted by everybody, than training to be at the top in middle distance running," points out former olympian and bbc pundit steve cram. "you have to have a real strong desire to carry on doing it even if you're very talented."  holmes' drive and determination have always been unquestionable - that is the reason she has battled back from a string of injuries that threatened to see her finish her career empty-handed. but alarm bells start ringing when the kent athlete begins questioning herself. "will i have as much commitment, desire and energy to go through a major championship?" holmes asked in the new year. "that is what i don't know." at 34, holmes will also be aware that time is running out. us 400m and 200m legend michael johnson, a five-time olympic gold medallist, retired shortly after his 34th birthday as did britain's double olympic champion decathlete daley thompson. the physical demands of the day-to-day grind will only get harder for holmes, who has already admitted she "doesn't like the training anymore." whilst out on the circuit the allure of defeating a double olympic champion will spur her opponents on. holmes will not want to needlessly suffer the indignity of being beaten. unless she is certain she has a strong chance of winning any race, she will not step onto the track. but if the kent athlete finds the form that fuelled her ambitions last summer, there are more prizes up for grabs. the day after completing her double in athens, the 34-year-old revealed she would still like to win her first indoors title.  holmes' wish could easily be met in madrid before she goes on to prepare for the outdoor season where there are still scores to be settled, such as a first gold at the world championships in helsinki. there is just one small truth which could gnaw away at holmes' motivation - the realisation that no matter how hard she trains, nothing she wins now can surpass her achievements in athens. on the other hand, if those achievements cannot be matched shouldn't they be at least shared and celebrated? "you don't get the chance very often in your career to step onto the track as the double olympic champion," agreed cram. "you want to be able to take your bow in front of the fans because it's a fantastic feeling. "i think deep down kelly wants to run. i think she will compete and run races on the circuits but whether or not she runs in the major championships is much less certain."  athletics fans had every reason to believe they would see the new-look kelly holmes tearing up the track again. after her olympic glory she emphatically denied she planned to retire. so, why is holmes dragging her heels about making a decision on where, when or whether to even bother competing again? "that's just kelly," explains cram. "she's always been like that. "she enjoys people trying to guess what she is going to do next. she knows every time she makes a pronouncement now it's headline news. "kelly has to figure out for herself what it is she wants and that will be based on athletics decisions, whether she can be competitive, if she is fit enough to put her neck on the line. "and if she decides not to run again, no-one is going to turn round and say 'you're making the wrong decision.'" half-life 2 sweeps bafta awards  pc first person shooter half-life 2 has won six bafta awards, including best game and best online game.  the title, developed by valve, was released last year to universal acclaim - receiving special praise for its immersive plot and physics engine. the game also won baftas for best action adventure, best pc game, art direction and animation. burnout 3 won three awards in the categories for racing, technical direction and best playstation 2 game. grant dean, chairman of the bafta games awards, said at a ceremony in london on tuesday: "the last year has been a great year for the interactive entertainment industry.  "these awards reflect the enormous achievements, progress and diversity that we have seen in that time." halo 2 won the best xbox game category, while prince of persia: warrior within was adjudged the best gamecube title. the sports award went to konami's pro evolution soccer 4. bafta said the "significant feature" of this year's awards was the number of "non-traditional games". the originality award was won by playstation 2 title singstar while the children's award went to gamecube bongo rhythm game donkey konga. the handheld award went to colin mcrae rally 2005 while the mobile category was won by blue tooth byplanes. the audio award was won by call of duty: finest hour and hitman: contracts won the music award. electrolux to export europe jobs  electrolux saw its shares rise 14% on tuesday after it said it would be shifting more of its manufacturing to low-cost countries.  the swedish firm, the world's largest maker of home appliances, said it is to relocate about 10 of its 27 plants in western europe and north america. it did not say which facilities would be affected, but intends moving them to asia, eastern europe and mexico. the company has two manufacturing sites in county durham. it makes lawn and garden products in newton aycliffe, and cookers and ovens in spennymoor. the newton aycliffe plant could also be affected by electrolux's separate announcement that it is to spin-off its outdoor products unit into a new separate company.  electrolux's subsidiary brands include aeg, zanussi and frigidaire. the company said it was speeding up its restructuring programme, which aims to save between £190m and £265m annually from 2009. "we see that about half the plants in high-cost countries - that is around 10 - are at risk," said electrolux chief executive hans straberg. "it looks pretty grim," said swedish trades union official ulf carlsson. "what are we going to end up producing in sweden?" berlin hails european cinema  organisers say this year's berlin film festival, which opens on thursday with period epic man to man, will celebrate a revitalised european cinema.  of the 21 films in competition for the golden and silver bear awards, more than half are from europe with france particularly well represented. festival director dieter kosslick says this strong showing signals "a new consciousness for european films". "they're on an incredible winning streak," he told the reuters agency. "this isn't to say there aren't any good american films," he continued. "it's just that there are more good european films."  however, mr kosslick refused to accept that widespread opposition to the iraq war had turned audiences against hollywood imports. "there is no anti-american mood," he said. some 350 films will be screened at this year's festival, with a further 300 shown at the european film market that runs alongside it. more than a dozen celebrities are scheduled to attend, among them will smith, kevin spacey and keanu reeves. but mr kosslick says more would be coming had the academy awards not been brought forward to 27 february. "i'm not worried that we won't be able to fill the red carpet with stars," he said, though he admitted the festival may be moved to january next year to avoid a similar clash. the 10-day berlinale runs until 20 february. eu china arms ban 'to be lifted'  the eu embargo on arms exports to china is likely to be lifted in the next six months despite us objections, uk foreign secretary jack straw has said.  the 15-year-old ban was imposed in the aftermath of china's crackdown on protesters in tiananmen square. mr straw told a commons select committee human rights concerns over china remained. but he said it was wrong to put china under the same embargo as countries such as zimbabwe and burma.  in december, the eu pledged to work towards lifting the ban but said it was not ready to do so yet. the eu's move was welcomed at the time by beijing, which described the embargo as a "product of the cold war". german chancellor gerhard schroeder and french president jacques chirac have repeatedly called for the embargo to be lifted. britain has been more cautious on the issue, but on wednesday mr straw said he also wanted it to end. "i have long understood china's argument, that to lump them in with, say, burma and zimbabwe is not appropriate and i don't think it is," he told the joint committee on strategic export controls. he said "it is more likely than not" that the ban would be lifted before britain takes over the presidency of the eu from luxembourg in july. but he said an eu code of conduct would prevent an increase in the number of arms being exported to the country. "if it is lifted we will end up with as effective arms controls in relation to china as we have now."  mr straw said the us government was suspicious of "the motives of some other countries within the eu" in wanting the ban lifted. but he said many of washington's objections were based on a "lack of information and understanding" of how export control guidelines worked in eu countries. and "intense discussions" were taking place with us officials to convince them it was the right thing to do. washington is thought to fear it would lead to a buying spree for arms that could be used by china to threaten its diplomatic rival taiwan. us officials say they are not satisfied the mechanisms in the eu code of conduct are robust enough to prevent abuses. us undersecretary of state john bolton is meeting british officials this week to press the case for keeping the embargo. gardener battles to narrow win  jason gardener fought all the way to the line to narrowly claim the men's 60m title at the norwich union indoor trials and aaas championships.  the world 60m champion got off to a rolling start and had to dig deep to dip ahead of mark findlay and darren chin, who both set personal bests. "it was a close race," admitted gardener. "i stumbled out the blocks but my experience told through. "i still feel there's more life in me and i believe i can go faster." gardener's performance in sheffield could have been affected by the news, which he heard before his semi-final, that his european record had been broken frenchman ronald pognon, who will be a real threat at the european championships, set a new time of 6.45, one-hundreth of a second faster than gardener's previous mark. favourite  delivered a powerful performance to take the women's 60m title in 7.27 seconds. "you'll see me in madrid and i feel there is a lot more to come along," said the 22-year-old. katherine endacott battled hard to take second and dip under the european qualifying mark. defending champion joice maduaka had pulled out of the final with a chest infection.  was on record-breaking form as she stormed to the women's 60m hurdles crown. the 25-year-old set a new british record for the second time in seven days, clocking 7.96 seconds to finish ahead of rival diane allahgreen. "i'm so happy," a tearful claxton told bbc sport. "all the years i've been running and i'm getting recognition." claxton's time was also good enough to qualify for the european championships.  the men's 800m went to form in sheffield as  dominated the race from start to finish. the northern ireland athlete went off at a startling pace but had to hold off the challenge of welshman jimmy watkins over the final 200m to win in one minute, 47.96 seconds. both mcilory and watkins, who set a life-time best of 1:48.32, had already booked their places in madrid and were again well within the qualifying time. "i had to go out and go through all the gears before the europeans and i won't run again until then," said mcilroy.  could not reach the european mark in the women's race as she crossed the line to win in 2:04.45. olympic bronze heptathlon medallist  rounded off a useful weekend with two more personal bests in sheffield. the 28-year-old reached 1.80m in the high jump and clocked 8.47secs in the heats of the 60m hurdles. "i've surprised myself," said sotherton. "i'm starting to thrive on the pressure but if i don't perform then it's not the end of the world." pole vaulter  made a winning return to major competition after a drugs ban. the trafford athlete, who has served a two-year ban after testing positive for anabolic steroids, clinched the title with a championship record 4.25m.  also set a new championship mark in the men's triple jump title in sheffield. the 26-year-old, who has been training in australia over the winter, landed 17.30m with his final effort - the longest leap in the world this year. "i didn't have a clue," said idowu. "i've not jumped indoors before and i just wanted the qualifying mark. "but this isn't a bad start and hopefully i'll come back from madrid with a gold medal." nathan douglas continued his steady progress this season as he set a life-time best of 16.76m in second while jonathan moore took third.  and  resumed their rivalry in the long jump competition, both achieving the european standard. commonwealth champion morgan reached a personal best of 7.96m on his very first jump and then promptly retired with a bruised heel. olympian tomlinson tried to play catch up with his six jumps but had to settle for a season's best jump of 7.91m. "i was advised not to jump by my doctor and so i'm pleased to come here and get the qualifying mark," said tomlinson.  , now based at loughborough, sprinted past front runner catherine murphy in the final 100m to steal the women's 400m title. the 21-year-old ran a personal best of 53.45 seconds to win her first indoor title. wall's time was just short of the qualifying mark - something murphy already has. ireland's  took the men's title in 46.46 ahead of promising channel islands decathlete dale garland. sudanese 18-year-old rabah yusuf, who is seeking british citizenship, showed his raw talent as he burst through in third.  cleared the required 1.90m to qualify for the european championships and claim the aaas title in the women's high jump. in the men's 3,000m,  powered to a new personal best of seven minutes, 56.86 seconds to defend his aaas title in style. it was the first time in 11 years the eight-minute barrier has been broken at the championships and was just within the european mark.  took the women's 1500m aaas title in the absence of kelly holmes. her time of 4:19.11 was not good enough to qualify for madrid but ovens had already opted out of the championships. the men's race was won by  , who had to fight off a closing pack to claim the title in 3:45.87. bt boosts its broadband packages  british telecom has said it will double the broadband speeds of most of its home and business customers.  the increased speeds will come at no extra charge and follows a similar move by internet service provider aol. many bt customers will now have download speeds of 2mbps, although there are usage allowances of between one gigabyte and 30 gigabytes a month. the new speeds start to come into effect on 17 february for home customers and 1 april for businesses. "britain is now broadband britain," said duncan ingram, bt's managing director, broadband and internet services. he added: "ninety percent of our customers will see real increases in speed.  "these speed increases will give people the opportunity to do a lot more with their broadband connections," he said. upload speeds - the speed at which information is sent from a pc via broadband - will remain at the same speed, said mr ingram. despite the increases, bt will continue to have usage allowances for home customers. "the allowances are extremely generous," said mr ingram "for what we are seeing in the market place - they are really not an issue." bt will begin enforcing the allowances in the summer. customers who exceed the amounts will either be able to pay for a bigger allowance or see their download speeds reduced. bt now has a 36% share of the broadband market - down from 39% - which is becoming increasingly competitive. in the last few months, many rival isps have begun to offer 2mbps services, including aol, plusnet and uk online.  but britain continues to lag behind some countries - especially japan and south korea - which offer broadband speeds of up to 40mbps. but mr ingram said it was important to "separate hype from reality". he said that a limited number of people with those connections consistently received speeds of 40mbps. customers will not see their connections double immediately on 17 february. mr ingram said there would be a roll out across the network in order to prevent any problems. worldcom ex-boss launches defence  lawyers defending former worldcom chief bernie ebbers against a battery of fraud charges have called a company whistleblower as their first witness.  cynthia cooper, worldcom's ex-head of internal accounting, alerted directors to irregular accounting practices at the us telecoms giant in 2002. her warnings led to the collapse of the firm following the discovery of an $11bn (£5.7bn) accounting fraud. mr ebbers has pleaded not guilty to charges of fraud and conspiracy.  prosecution lawyers have argued that mr ebbers orchestrated a series of accounting tricks at worldcom, ordering employees to hide expenses and inflate revenues to meet wall street earnings estimates. but ms cooper, who now runs her own consulting business, told a jury in new york on wednesday that external auditors arthur andersen had approved worldcom's accounting in early 2001 and 2002. she said andersen had given a "green light" to the procedures and practices used by worldcom. mr ebber's lawyers have said he was unaware of the fraud, arguing that auditors did not alert him to any problems.  ms cooper also said that during shareholder meetings mr ebbers often passed over technical questions to the company's finance chief, giving only "brief" answers himself. the prosecution's star witness, former worldcom financial chief scott sullivan, has said that mr ebbers ordered accounting adjustments at the firm, telling him to "hit our books". however, ms cooper said mr sullivan had not mentioned "anything uncomfortable" about worldcom's accounting during a 2001 audit committee meeting. mr ebbers could face a jail sentence of 85 years if convicted of all the charges he is facing. worldcom emerged from bankruptcy protection in 2004, and is now known as mci. last week, mci agreed to a buyout by verizon communications in a deal valued at $6.75bn. sky takes over oscar night mantle  sky has signed a major new deal to broadcast this year's academy awards, taking over from three years of live oscar coverage on the bbc.  sky said it was "honoured to have won exclusive broadcasting rights" and promised to cover the event "in a way no other broadcaster could". the bbc denied it had lost a bidding war, saying it had "decided to pass the mantle to another broadcaster". the ceremony, hosted by newcomer chris rock, takes place on 27 february 2005.  sky's coverage will launch with the nominations on 25 january and will include themed programming across sky channels including sky news, sky travel and the biography channel. there will also be a month-long season of oscar-winning films on sky movies in the run up to the event and live uninterrupted coverage on the night. "we are honoured to have won the live and exclusive broadcasting rights for the academy awards," said sky networks' sophie turner laing. "sky is the natural place to see the biggest and most prestigious film event of the year, and will cover the event in a way that no other broadcaster could."  sky first scooped oscar rights from the bbc in 1999, but the bbc won them back in 2001 when sky was forced to pull out of a bidding war due to financial constraints. "bbc viewers will of course be able to watch quality coverage of the 2005 academy awards on the bbc's bulletins and news programmes," a spokesman said. among the films tipped to do well at this year's academy awards are martin scorsese's the aviator, jean-pierre jeunet's a very long engagement and the ray charles biopic, ray. 'debate needed' on donations cap  a cap on donations to political parties should not be introduced yet, the elections watchdog has said.  fears that big donors can buy political favours have sparked calls for a limit. in a new report, the electoral commission says it is worth debating a £10,000 cap for the future but now is not the right time to introduce it. it also says there should be more state funding for political parties and candidates should be able to spend more on election campaigning.  there were almost £68m in reported donations to political parties in 2001, 2002 and 2003, with nearly £12m of them from individual gifts worth more than £1m. the rules have already been changed so the public can see who gives how much to the parties but the report says there are still public suspicions. the commission says capping donations would mean taxpayers giving parties more cash - something which would first have to be acceptable to the public and shown to work. "while we are not in principle opposed to the introduction of a donation cap, we do not believe that such a major departure from the existing system now would be sensible," says its report. if there was to be a cap, it should be £10,000 - a small enough amount to make a difference but which would have banned £56m in donations between 2001 and 2003.  even without changes the commission does urge political parties to seek out more small-scale donations and suggests there should be income tax relief for gifts under £200. it also suggests increasing state funding for parties to £3m so help can be extended to all parties with at least two members in the house of commons, european parliament, scottish parliament, welsh assembly or northern ireland assembly. and it suggests new ways of boosting election campaigning, seen as a way of improving voter turnout. all local election candidates should be entitled to a free mailshot for campaign leaflets, says the watchdog. and there should be a shift in the amount of money allowed to be spent at elections from a national level to a local level to help politicians engage better with voters.  the report suggests doubling the money which can be spent by candidates, while cutting national spending limits from £20m to £15m. the commission also says the spending limits for general elections should cover the four months before the poll - as happens with other elections. electoral commission chairman sam younger said: "there is no doubt that political parties have a vital role to play in maintaining the health of our democracy and for this they need to be adequately resourced. "our research has shown that people want to be more informed about party politics and that they want politicians to be more visible and accessible. "the public are reluctant for the state to fund parties but at the same time are unhappy with large private donations." he called for a wider public debate on party funding to find the consensus needed for radical changes to the current system. european medal chances improve  what have the european indoor trials told us? well, i think we could be heading to the european championships with half a dozen medal prospects.  it was good to see athletes beginning to make steps forward, to see a few new faces and there were lots of personal bests kicking around.  the best performance on the track for me was sarah claxton's win in the 60m hurdles. running sub-eight seconds twice in a week puts her right up there and if she repeats that in madrid she will be close to picking up a medal. but what was great about sunday's performance was that she was under pressure to produce the goods when it counted. diane allahgreen has been our best hurdler for some time now and i think she was surprised to be beaten by sarah. and knowing that she got the better of diane in a head-to-head race will give sarah confidence. in the men's race on saturday, allan scott was right in there and there is definitely more to come from him. in fact, the men's 60m hurdles is so strong, i think the selectors will pick three hurdlers to go to madrid.  phillips idowu lit up the field events, not only with his hair, but also with his leap of 17.30m, which puts him at the top of the world rankings. i had a chat with him before the competition and he was really looking forward to getting out there. he feels he is in great shape and has some big jumps inside him - but then phillips always has. a lot of the athletes said the runway was not very helpful, so for phillips to jump like that is a good performance. he is such a huge talent but just needs some consistency - and if he does that then the big jumps will get even further. across the board i thought kelly sotherton had a great weekend and continued to show she is developing. she picked up three personal bests in the long jump, high jump and 60m hurdles and you can't ask for more than that. kelly will be up against carolina kluft in the pentathlon at the european championships but she has every chance of a medal on the basis of what we've seen so far.  she has a complicated training regime where different people help her with different disciplines but it seems to be working really well. it wasn't all good news in sheffield. i thought both the 60m races were disappointing in different ways. jason gardener may have won but he wasn't at his best. i chatted to him afterwards and he knows it was an off-day for him. he's there to be shot at and the other lads nearly got a big scalp out there. in the women's race, jeanette kwayke was hoping to run against defending champion joice maduaka. the pair are enjoying a bit of rivalry but joice had to pull out with a chest infection. if she had made the final i think jeanette would have gone a bit quicker.  janine whitlock competed well in the pole vault on her return following a two-year drugs ban. but the most disappointing thing in the wider view is that she is our best pole vaulter by a long way and that shouldn't be the case. the event has moved on immensely since janine has been away and if there was more domestic competition i think that would help her. a couple of other interesting topics to look out for are the citizenship issues surrounding mark findlay and rabah yusuf. findlay is a londoner who has chosen to represent trinidad and tobago but has never run for them so he could still compete for great britain. yusuf, who came third in the 400m, is from the sudan but is trying to gain british citizenship. he came to britain as a high jumper but damaged his toe, started doing more running and found his talent. so we shall have to see what happens to both of them. mobiles 'not media players yet'  mobiles are not yet ready to be all-singing, all-dancing multimedia devices which will replace portable media players, say two reports.  despite moves to bring music download services to mobiles, people do not want to trade multimedia services with size and battery life, said jupiter. a separate study by gartner has also said real-time tv broadcasts to mobiles is "unlikely" in europe until 2007. technical issues and standards must be resolved first, said the report. batteries already have to cope with other services that operators offer, like video playback, video messaging, megapixel cameras and games amongst others. bringing music download services based on the success of computer-based download services will put more demands on battery life.  fifty percent of europeans said the size of a mobile was the most important factor when it came to choosing their phone, but more power demands tend to mean larger handsets. "mobile phone music services must not be positioned to compete with the pc music experience as the handsets are not yet ready," said thomas husson, mobile analyst at jupiter research. "mobile music services should be new and different, and enable operators to differentiate their brands and support third generation network launches." other problems facing mobile music include limited storage on phones, compared to portable players which can hold up to 40gb of music. the mobile industry is keen to get into music downloading, after the success of apple's itunes, napster and other net music download services.  with phones getting smarter and more powerful, there are also demands to be able to watch tv on the move. in the us, services like tivo to go let people transfer pre-recorded tv content onto their phones. but, the gartner report on mobile tv broadcasting in europe suggests direct broadcasting will have to wait. currently, tv-like services, where clips are downloaded, are offered by several european operators, like italy's tim and 3. mobile tv will have to overcome several barriers before it is widely taken up though, said the report.  various standards and ways of getting tv signals to mobiles are being worked on globally. in europe, trials in berlin and helsinki are making use of terrestrial tv masts to broadcast compressed signals to handsets with extra receivers. a service from the norwegian broadcasting corporation lets people watch tv programmes on their mobiles 24 hours a day. the service uses 3gp technology, one of the standards for mobile tv. but at the end of 2004, the european telecommunications institute (etsi) formally adopted digital video broadcasting handheld (dvb-h) as the mobile tv broadcasting standard for europe. operators will be working on the standard as a way to bring real-time broadcasts to mobiles, as well as trying to overcome several other barriers. the cost and infrastructure needs to set up the services will need to be addressed. handsets also need to be able to work with the dvb-h standard. tv services will have to live up to the expectations of the digital tv generation too, which expects good quality images at low prices, according to analysts. people are also likely to be put off watching tv on such small screens, said gartner. digital video recorders, like europe's sky+ box, and video-on-demand services mean people have much more control over what tv they watch. as a result, people may see broadcasting straight to mobiles as taking away that control. more powerful smartphones like the xda ii, nokia 6600, sonyericsson p900 and the orange e200, offering web access, text and multimedia messaging, e-mail, calendar and gaming are becoming increasingly common. a report by analysts instat/mdr has predicted that smartphone shipments will grow by 44% over the next five years. it says that smartphones will make up 117 million out of 833 million handsets shipped globally by 2009. insurance bosses plead guilty  another three us insurance executives have pleaded guilty to fraud charges stemming from an ongoing investigation into industry malpractice.  two executives from american international group (aig) and one from marsh & mclennan were the latest. the investigation by new york attorney general eliot spitzer has now obtained nine guilty pleas. the highest ranking executive pleading guilty on tuesday was former marsh senior vice president joshua bewlay.  he admitted one felony count of scheming to defraud and faces up to four years in prison. a marsh spokeswoman said mr bewlay was no longer with the company. mr spitzer's investigation of the us insurance industry looked at whether companies rigged bids and fixed prices. last month marsh agreed to pay $850m (£415m) to settle a lawsuit filed by mr spitzer, but under the settlement it "neither admits nor denies the allegations". snicket tops us box office chart  the film adaptation of lemony snicket novels has topped the north america box office chart, displacing ocean's 12.  a series of unfortunate events, starring jim carrey, took $30.2m (£15.5m) in its debut weekend. ocean's 12 fell to number two while new entry spanglish entered the chart at number three, taking $9m (£4.6m). a series of unfortunate events also stars scottish comedian billy connelly, while carrey takes on a number of different roles in the surreal film. the only other new entry in the top 10 was re-make, flight of the phoenix, at number eight, starring dennis quaid. carrey entertained crowds at the uk premiere of lemony snicket in london on friday. the actor grabbed co-star meryl streep and whisked her around leicester square. based on the cult children's books by author daniel handler, the film follows three children who are orphaned when their parents die in a fire. they are taken in by their wicked uncle count olaf, played by carrey, who schemes to get his hands on their fortune. cardinal criticises iraq war cost  billions of pounds spent on conflict in iraq and in the middle east should have been used to reduce poverty, cardinal cormac murphy-o'connor has said.  the head of the catholic church in england and wales made the comments on bbc radio 4 and will re-iterate his stance in his christmas midnight mass. the cardinal used a christmas message to denounce the war in iraq as a "terrible" waste of money. he and the archbishop of canterbury have both spoken out about the war.  speaking on bbc radio 4's thought for the day slot, he criticised the fact that "billions" have been spent on war, instead of being used to bring people "out of dire poverty and malnourishment and disease". the cardinal said 2005 should be the year for campaigning to "make history poverty". he added: "if the governments of the rich countries were as ready to devote to peace the resources they are willing to commit to war, that would be to see with new eyes and speak with a new voice and perhaps then others would listen to us with new ears." the cardinal will touch on this theme again on friday night when he will tell the congregation of 2,000 at westminster cathedral that peace is "worth, always, striving for".  "how is it that peace has not arrived?," the cardinal will ask. "how is it that there is war in iraq, violence in the holy land, and the horror of pain and death amongst the poor and deprived who suffer from injustice and thus do not find peace?" "how can one wish a happy christmas for our fellow christians in iraq or in the holy land or those who suffer in africa unless you and i, in whatever way is open to us, say and do what makes for peace?" both the cardinal and archbishop of canterbury dr rowan williams appealed for the weapons inspectors to be given more time in iraq before the war started. dr williams has since criticised the government over its case for war, saying the failure to find weapons of mass destruction had damaged faith in the political system.  on friday, the cardinal will ask the congregation to search for peace. "it is possible, it is real, it is worth, always, striving for, because of the promise of our saviour," he will say. "i also wish you peace in your homes because peace in your home is the beginning of peace in the homes of the community. " a spokesman said downing street had no comment to make. but prime minister tony blair has said he will put africa at the top of the agenda when britain chairs the g8 summit next year. mcilroy wins 800m indoor title  james mcilroy motored to the aaa's indoor 800m title in sheffied on sunday in a time of one minute, 47.97 seconds.  the larne athlete dominated the race from start to finish although he had to hold off a late challenge from welshman jimmy watkins in the final 100 metres. "i had to go out and go through all the gears before the europeans and i won't run again until then," said mcilroy. ''i though if i got lucky i'd get close to the british record but i blew up in the end.'' mcilroy has been in superb form at the start of the season and will now start his build-up for the european indoors at madrid on 4-6 march. meanwhile, paul brizzel and anna boyle reached the semi-finals of the 60m hurdles with boyle setting a season's best of 7.48. in the women's 60m final, ailis mcsweeney broke michelle carroll's long-standing irish record by clocking 7.37 which left her in third place. david gillick showed that he is a genuine medal contender in the european indoor championships by claiming an impressive 400m victory. gillick was more than half-a-second clear when taking gold in 46.45 - .02 outside his personal best set in saturday's semi-finals.  the irishman is now the fastest european this season. derval o'rourke broke her own irish 60m hurdles record by clocking 8.06 which left her third behind new british record holder sarah claxton (7.96). james nolan (3:46.04) took second in the men's 1500m behind neil speaight (3:45.86) but the offaly man was outside the european indoor standard. colin costello was seventh in the 1500m final in 3:48.82). deirdre ryan was second in the women's high jump with a clearance of 1.87m while aoife byrne took silver in the 800m in a personal best of 2:06.73. lisburn's kelly mcneice reid (4:31.34) was seventh in the women's 1500m while gary murray (8:11.22) was 11th in the men's 3000m. meanwhile, stephen cairns and jill shannon claimed the individual titles at saturday's northern ireland cross country championship in coleraine. cairns came in ahead of paul rowan and allan bogle in the men's race. willowfield claimed their first men's team title in 72 years while shannon helped lagan valley win the women's team honours. microsoft releases patches  microsoft has warned pc users to update their systems with the latest security fixes for flaws in windows programs.  in its monthly security bulletin, it flagged up eight "critical" security holes which could leave pcs open to attack if left unpatched. the number of holes considered "critical" is more than usual. they affect windows programs, including internet explorer (ie), media player and instant messaging. four other important fixes were also released. these were considered to be less critical, however. if not updated, either automatically or manually, pc users running the programs could be vulnerable to viruses or other malicious attacks designed to exploit the holes. many of the flaws could be used by virus writers to take over computers remotely, install programs, change, and delete or see data.  one of the critical patches microsoft has made available is an important one that fixes some ie flaws. stephen toulouse, a microsoft security manager, said the flaws were known about, and although the firm had not seen any attacks exploiting the flaw, he did not rule them out. often, when a critical flaw is announced, spates of viruses follow because home users and businesses leave the flaw unpatched. a further patch fixes a hole in media player, windows messenger and msn messenger which an attacker could use to take control of unprotected machines through .png files. microsoft announces any vulnerabilities in its software every month. the most important ones are those which are classed as "critical". its latest releases came the week that the company announced it was to buy security software maker sybari software as part of microsoft's plans to make its own security programs. further rise in uk jobless total  the uk's jobless total rose for the second month in a row in december, official figures show.  the number of people out of work rose 32,000 to 1.41 million in the last three months of 2004, even as 90,000 more people were in employment. average earnings rose by 4.3% in the year to december up from november's 4.2%, the office for national statistics (ons) added. meanwhile, the benefit claimant total fell 11,000 to 813,200 last month. throughout 2004, the number of people in work increased by 296,000 to 28.52 million - the highest figure since records began in 1971.  the apparent discrepancy between rising unemployment and record numbers in work can be explained by an increase in the working population and a fall in those who are economically inactive. while the uk's jobless rate rose to 4.7% from 4.6% in the previous quarter, the rate still remains one of the lowest in the world, compared with 12.1% in germany, 10.4% in spain and 9.7% in france. but, despite more people being in work, the manufacturing sector continued to suffer, with 104,000 workers axed during the last quarter of 2004 - pushing employment in the sector to a record low of 3.24 million by the end of last year. the figures prompted some analysts to forecast that the bank of england will almost certainly raise rates this year. marc ostwald, a strategist at monument securities told reuters that while no immediate market impact could be expected, "it is enough to underline that they (the boe) will be more hawkish on rates". director nair's vanity project  indian film director mira nair has said she was thrilled to be given the chance to make william makepeace thackeray's novel vanity fair - as the book has been a favourite through her life.  the book is one of the classics of english literature - the story of scheming 19th century social climber becky sharp, played in the film by reese witherspoon. nair said that she jumped at the chance to work on the film, which she has - controversially - made in a bollywood style, including two song-and-dance routines in the film's second half. "it was serendipity really - i was offered vanity fair by the studio focus features, who had distributed monsoon wedding," nair told bbc world service's masterpiece programme. "they offered me their next-best thing, not realising that vanity fair had actually been one of my favourite novels since i was 16 years old in an irish catholic boarding school in india."  since her 1988 debut feature salaam bombay! - nominated for the best foreign language oscar and winner of best first feature at cannes - nair has become one of india's most famous and respected directors. she is not restricted to bollywood, however - she followed salaam bombay! with mississippi masala, starring denzel washington, and the perez family, her first hollywood film.  her career peaked with monsoon wedding in 2001, which won the golden lion award at venice. nair's indian-style adaptation of vanity fair, however, has been attacked by critics in the us - where it only reached number eight at the box office in its opening week - who described the bollywood elements as "jarring." the film has a new ending, with becky sharp running off for a new life in india. but nair said that her film had picked up on the way thackeray - who was born in india but moved to england as a young man - had seen the world. "first, when i was 16, it was becky sharp, who is a completely memorable character, because i recognised myself in her - i recognised all the ladies who did not want to be ladies, who wanted to buck the system that they were in," she said. "but it was the sort of novel i somehow kept at the side of my bed for many years, and i would dip into every now and then and suddenly get completely mesmerised again. "as i got older and read it, i think it was thackeray's clarity - his clear-sightedness about his own society, the fact that he was born in india but came to england as a young man - that gave him the eyes of an outsider, and yet he was an insider. "that perspective was something i really loved."  nair also defended her decision to cast an american actress - reese witherspoon - as becky sharp, despite the fact that all the rest of the cast are british or irish. "i cast intuitively - in my films i cast as many non-actors as i cast actors," she said. "for me, it is intuition - i have to fall in love with an actor. it is a visceral response.  "thackeray describes becky sharp as a minx. also she's described as someone who's tiny, red-headed and thin. reese had that completely minx-like irresistibility about her." having won the role because she seemed physically perfectly suited to the part, however, witherspoon then became pregnant. but nair said that, though this had created the need for some filming tricks, it had in fact also helped the film. "it was a self-fulfilling prophesy - when i first met her husband [actor ryan philippe], i said 'knock her up, won't you, i need some flesh on the girl'," she joked. "i'm not a fan of the underfed los angeles actor at all. this was, for me, about becky sharp being, eventually, a full-blown woman through the course of the film. "i love the luminosity that pregnancy brings, i love the fleshiness, i love the ample bosom - it gave me much more to play with." nair explained how camera tricks had been used to disguise witherspoon's "bump" in various scenes - including hiring a number of young boys in costumes to stand in front of her. "she runs, she gets off coal carts, she jumps off horses - she does everything," nair said. "but there's also a certain carriage with horses that is going to wipe the screen at a certain moment, because of the bump." assembly ballot papers 'missing'  hundreds of ballot papers for the regional assembly referendum in the north east have "disappeared".  royal mail says it is investigating the situation, which has meant about 300 homes in county durham are not receiving voting packs. officials at darlington council are now in a race against time to try and rectify the situation. the all-postal votes of about two million electors are due to be handed in by 4 november. a spokesman for darlington council said: "we have sent out the ballot papers, the problem is with royal mail. "somewhere along the line, something has gone wrong and these ballot papers have not been delivered. "the royal mail is investigating to see if they can find out what the problem is."  a spokeswoman for royal mail said: "we are investigating a problem with the delivery route in the mowden area of darlington. "this is affecting several hundred properties, which have failed to receive ballot papers. "we are working closely with the council and will do all we can to help rectify the problem. "no-one will not receive their ballot paper as special hand deliveries will take place where necessary. "we are unaware of any other problems of this kind to do with the regional assembly vote."  the darlington council spokesman added: "initially we had complaints from a couple of residents in mowden to say they thought they should have had their ballot papers by now. "we then made further investigations and it became clear this was a bigger issue." a spokeswoman for the electoral commission told bbc news online that letters were being sent out to those homes affected. she said the commission was satisfied that measures had been put in place to ensure all voters received ballot papers in time. so far a total of 569,072 ballot envelopes have been scanned by bar code at counting offices across the north east. johnson edges out rival sotherton  jade johnson edged out rival kelly sotherton with her last effort to claim the aaas long jump title at the norwich union european indoor trials.  olympic heptathlon bronze medallist, sotherton, led the event with her first leap of 6.43m - a personal best. but johnson, who has not competed indoors for five years, leapt to a life-time best of 6.50m in her last jump, after four fouls. both johnson and sotherton passed the european championships qualifying mark. although sotherton's main aim in madrid next month will be the pentathlon where she will take on olympic heptathlon champion carolina kluft. ireland's  delivered a shock in the men's 200m as he stormed to his first major title in 21.01 seconds. british favourite chris lambert had to settle for second place while defending champion ireland's paul brizzel took third. there was some consolation for lambert as he set a personal best of 20.94 in the first round - good enough to qualify for europe.  two-time aaas champion allyn condon and ian mackie had no such luck as they were disqualified in the heats. there was plenty of hot action in the men's 60m hurdles where scotland's  was vying for top spot with olympian andy turner. scott, 22, smashed his personal best on the way to the final, where he broke it again to win the aaas title in 7.58 seconds. turner finished second in 7.82 after previously setting a personal best on the 7.83 in the semi-finals, while damien greaves did not finish the final. the trio of athletes have reached the european qualifying mark this season though one of them is set to miss out on a call-up to the british squad.  comfortably defended her 3,000m title, clocking eight minutes, 49.87 seconds to easily surpass the european qualifying mark. the european cross country bronze medallist is ranked number one in europe this season and will go to madrid with high hopes. helen clitheroe was agonisingly close to the 9:05.00 qualifying mark as she claimed the runners-up spot in a personal best of 9:05.73. in the men's 800m heats,  qualified fastest in the 800m heats to lay down a challenge to in-form  . the welsh runner attacked the last 200m to come through ahead of james thie in one minute, 49.87 seconds. mcilroy, who is third in the european rankings, eased across the finish in 1:50.87 to set up a showdown in sunday's final in sheffield. both watkins and mcilroy have already achieved the european qualifying mark. scotland's susan deacon stole  's thunder in the final of the women's 200m. fraser became the fastest british woman over the distance this season when she qualified for the final in 23.68 seconds - though that time is outside the european standard. but deacon claimed her first aaas title over the distance, edging fraser into second in 23.67. in the women's shot put veteran  claimed her fourth aaas title with a throw of 15.27m. but that mark was not good enough for the 39-year-old to book her place at next month's european indoor championships in madrid. sotherton finished fifth after producing two throws of 13.77m. in the absence of injured british number one carl myerscough,  claimed the men's shot put title with a throw of 17.64m, which was below the qualifying mark.  sale's robert mitchell climbed to a season's best of 2.20m - just 3cm short of the european standard - to claim the british indoor high jump title.  could only clear 2.16m to finish in fourth but the 27-year-old's disappointment will be tempered as he had already achieved the qualifying mark at a meeting in slovenia on tuesday. there was bad luck for british number one  in the pole vault as he failed to clear the bar after deciding to come in at 5.45m. the aaas indoor title went instead to ashley swain, who climbed to a season's best of 5.25m and ireland's taniesha scanlon set a new national record of 13.28m in the women's triple jump. concern over rfid tags  consumers are very concerned about the use of radio frequency id (rfid) tags in shops, a survey says.  more than half of 2,000 people surveyed said they had privacy worries about the tags, which can be used to monitor stock on shelves or in warehouses. some consumer groups have expressed concern that the tags could be used to monitor shoppers once they had left shops with their purchases. the survey showed that awareness of tags among consumers in europe was low. the survey of consumers in the uk, france, germany and the netherlands was carried out by consultancy group capgemini. the firm works on behalf of more than 30 firms who are seeking to promote the growth of rfid technology. the tags are a combination of computer chip and antenna which can be read by a scanner - each item contains a unique identification number.  more than half (55%) of the respondents said they were either concerned or very concerned that rfid tags would allow businesses to track consumers via product purchases. fifty nine percent of people said they were worried that rfid tags would allow data to be used more freely by third parties. ard jan vetham, capgemini's principal consultant on rfid, said the survey showed that retailers needed to inform and educate people about rfid before it would become accepted technology. "acceptance of new technologies always has a tipping point at which consumers believe that benefits outweigh concerns. "with the right rfid approach and ongoing communication with consumers, the industry can reach this point." he said that the survey also showed people would accept rfid if they felt that the technology could mean a reduction in car theft or faster recovery of stolen items. the tags are currently being used at one tesco distribution centre in the uk - the tags allow the rapid inventory of bulk items. they are also in use as a passcard for the m6 toll in the midlands, in the uk. mr vetham said the majority of people surveyed (52%) believed that rfid tags could be read from a distance. he said that was a misconception based on a lack of awareness of the technology. at least once consumer group - consumers against supermarket privacy invasion and numbering (caspian) - has claimed that rfid chips could be used to secretly identify people and the things they are carrying or wearing. all kinds of personal belongings, including clothes, could constantly broadcast messages about their whereabouts and their owners, it warned. wembley firm won't make a profit  shares in multiplex group, which is building the new wembley stadium, fell as much as 19% after it said it would not make any money on the project.  the australian firm said it would only break even on the 1.2bn australian dollars (£458m; $874m) rebuild, after a rise in costs on the work. any profits would depend on the outcome of legal cases resulting from a change in steel contractor, it added. it cut a$68m from profit targets for wembley and another uk project.  investors were shaken by the news and the firm's shares fell to a four month low of a$4.50, before recovering to close 16% down at a$4.67. the decline came despite multiplex reporting an 11% rise in pre-tax profits to a$67.7m for 2004 and reaffirming its 2005 profit forecasts. increased costs at wembley and a separate development in london's docklands saw multiplex's construction division report profits of a$35.1m.  the firm said the result was below expectations but stressed that the majority of its uk projects - which also include the white city redevelopment scheme in west london - were performing strongly.  to recoup any profit from wembley, where the firm changed its steel contractor due to a legal dispute, multiplex will have to win legal claims against subcontractors. these claims could take up to two years to resolve. "multiplex believes its claim are sound and ultimately will exceed the level needed to support the break even position," it said. "it is expected that profits will be possible in future periods as the claims are finalised." wembley stadium is to due to be completed in january and will officially open for the 2006 fa cup final. analysts expressed concern at the unexpected paring back in profit. "such a big writeback on the wembley project in such a short period has impacted on management credibility," simon wheatley, from goldman sachs, told reuters. spirit awards hail sideways  the comedy sideways has dominated this year's independent spirit awards, winning all six of the awards for which it was nominated.  it was named best film while alexander payne won best director and best screenplay, along with writing partner jim taylor. it also won acting awards for stars paul giamatti, thomas haden church and virginia madsen. sideways is tipped to do well at sunday's oscars, with five nominations.  the awards, now in their 20th year, are given to films made outside the traditional studio system, and are traditionally held the day before the oscars. other winners included catalina sandino moreno, who took best actress for her role as a drug smuggler in the colombian drama maria full of grace. moreno is also nominated for best actress at the oscars. the best first screenplay award went to joshua marston for maria full of grace. scrubs star zach braff won the award for best first feature for garden state, which he wrote, directed and starred in. oscar-nominated euthanasia film the sea inside from spain won best foreign film, while metallica: some kind of monster was awarded best documentary. actor rodrigo de la serna took the best debut performance prize for the motorcycle diaries. the awards are voted for by the 9,000 members of the independent feature project/los angeles, which includes actors, directors, writers and other industry professionals. last year's big winner, lost in translation, went on to win the oscar for best original screenplay, for writer-director sofia coppola. muslims discuss election concerns  issues that muslims should be considering before voting in the next general election are to be debated by uk community representatives.  the event is being held by the muslim association of britain (mab), which believes muslim voters could influence the result in up to 50 constituencies. last year mab, which opposed the war in iraq, urged muslims not to vote for labour in the european elections. but a spokesman stressed the meeting was "not necessarily anti-labour". "this meeting is not anti-party in particular, it's anti-policy, it's on the issues we are going to ask muslims to vote on," mab spokesman dr azzam tamimi said of tuesday's event.  "there are issues of concern to muslims, and muslims generally agree on them but have not in the past been aware of how a vote can serve these issues." dr tamimi said the main issues muslims should consider were what he referred to as the war on iraq, the palestinian situation, the erosion of civil liberties for muslims in the uk and economic, social and education problems.  approximately 1.1m of the uk's 1.6m muslims are of voting age. previous election research has shown the overwhelming majority have traditionally voted labour, but more recent studies have suggested labour support has been falling away significantly among some muslim voters.  anger over the war in iraq has appeared to be the main reason, with many saying it was "unjustified". representatives from a number of muslim organisations will attend tuesday's event. among them will be the muslim council of britain (mcb). the chairman of the mcb's public affairs committee, sher khan, said the war in iraq would be a "significant factor" affecting muslims' voting intentions. "i think it's going to be quite significant because of the number of seats in which they could have an impact," mr khan said.  however, professor john curtice, of the university of strathclyde, is sceptical about how much difference tactical voting by muslims could make. "for the most part the labour constituencies where there's a large muslim community are relatively safe, but there are one or two that are not quite so safe," professor curtice said.  the constituencies where labour was most at risk from a muslim tactical vote were bethnal green, in east london, and rochdale in lancashire, he added. in bethnal green, former labour mp george galloway, who founded the anti-war party respect, is standing against sitting mp oona king, who had a 10,000-vote majority in 2001. in rochdale, the liberal democrats - the mainstream party a 2004 icm survey showed was benefiting most from muslim disaffection with labour - secured second place in the 2001 election, securing just under 6,000 votes fewer than labour's lorna fitzsimons. but professor curtice said the muslim anti-war vote could be split between the liberal democrats and respect, meaning neither would benefit much at the ballot box. "ironically the tories might be the beneficiaries if labour does lose seats, which is generally the case," he said. but dr tamimi said mab's intention was not to "empower" the tories. "we know the next government will be labour, but we are aiming to send a message that it will make a difference if the muslims use their vote properly. "if the next labour government has a reduced majority that's a great achievement because having a very big majority has been very harmful for politics in this country," dr tamimi said. brizzel to run aaa's in sheffield  ballymena sprinter paul brizzel will be among eight of ireland's european indoor hopefuls competing in this weekend's aaa's championships.  us-based alistair cragg and mark carroll are the only irish athletes selected so far for the europeans who will not run in sheffield. brizzel will defend his 200m title in the british trials. in-form james mcilroy will hope to confirm his place in the british team for madrid by winning the 800m title. mcilroy has been in tremendous form on the european circuit in recent weeks. he is one of the fastest 800m runners in the world this winter and already seems assured of a place in madrid. corkman mark carroll confirmed in midweek that he would join cragg in the european championships. carroll is ranked number three in the world 3000m ranking at the moment with cragg occupying top spot. meanwhile, nine-times champion dermot donnelly will not be coming out of retirement to compete in the northern ireland cross country championships in coleraine on saturday. an injury crisis in the annadale striders squad led to donnelly being entered by coach john mclaughlin but the athlete told bbc sport on friday evening that he would not be running. willowfield's paul rowan will go in as individual favourite but annadale could have a tough job holding on to their team title as andrew dunwoody and noel pollock are unlikely to run. ask jeeves joins web log market  ask jeeves has bought the bloglines website to improve the way it handles content from web journals or blogs.  the bloglines site has become hugely popular as it gives users one place in which to read, search and share all the blogs they are interested in. ask jeeves said it was not planning to change bloglines but would use the 300 million articles it has archived to round out its index of the web. how much ask jeeves paid for bloglines was not revealed.  bloglines has become popular because it lets users build a list of the blogs they want to follow without having to visit each journal site individually. to do this it makes use of a technology known as really simple syndication (rss) that many blogs have adopted to let other sites know when new entries are made on their journals. the acquisition follows similar moves by other search sites. google acquired pyra labs, makers of the blogger software, in 2003. in 2004 msn introduced its own blog system and yahoo has tweaked its technology to do a better job of handling blog entries. jim lanzone, vice president of search properties at ask jeeves in the us, said it did not acquire bloglines just to get a foothold in the blog publishing world. he said ask jeeves was much more interested in helping people find information they were looking for rather than helping them write it.  "the universe of readers is vastly larger than the universe of writers," he said. mr lanzone said the acquisition would sit well with ask's my jeeves service which lets people customise their own web experience and build up a personal collection of useful links. "search engines are about discovering information for the first time and rss is the ideal way to keep track of and monitor those sites," he said. it would also help drive information and entries from blogs to the portals that ask jeeves operates. there would be no instant sweeping changes to bloglines, said mr lanzone. "our intent is to take our time to figure out the right business model not to try to monetise it right away," he said. though mr lanzone added that ask jeeves would be helping organise the database of 300m blog entries bloglines holds with its own net indexing technology. "being able to search the blogosphere as one corpus of information will be very useful in its own right," said mr lanzone. rumours about the acquisition were broken by the napsterization weblog which said it got the hint from ask jeeves insiders. cars pull down us retail figures  us retail sales fell 0.3% in january, the biggest monthly decline since last august, driven down by a heavy fall in car sales.  the 3.3% fall in car sales had been expected, coming after december's 4% rise in car sales, fuelled by generous pre-christmas special offers. excluding the car sector, us retail sales were up 0.6% in january, twice what some analysts had been expecting. us retail spending is expected to rise in 2005, but not as quickly as in 2004.  steve gallagher, us chief economist at sg corporate & investment banking, said january's figures were "decent numbers".  "we are not seeing the numbers that we saw in the second half of 2004, but they are still pretty healthy," he added. sales at appliance and electronic stores were down 0.6% in january, while sales at hardware stores dropped by 0.3% and furniture store sales dipped 0.1%. sales at clothing and clothing accessory stores jumped 1.8%, while sales at general merchandise stores, a category that includes department stores, rose by 0.9%. these strong gains were in part put down to consumers spending gift vouchers they had been given for christmas.  sales at restaurants, bars and coffee houses rose by 0.3%, while grocery store sales were up 0.5%. in december, overall retail sales rose by 1.1%. excluding the car sector, sales rose by just 0.3%. parul jain, deputy chief economist at nomura securities international, said consumer spending would continue to rise in 2005, only at a slower rate of growth than in 2004. "consumers continue to retain their strength in the first quarter," he said. van rourke, a bond strategist at popular securities, agreed that the latest retail sales figures were "slightly stronger than expected". tautou film tops cesar prize nods  french film a very long engagement has received 12 nominations for france's cesar film awards, despite a recent ruling it was "not french enough".  the world war i romantic drama starring audrey tautou, was recently ruled "too american" by a paris court as it was partially backed by warner bros. but the cesar organisers modified their rules to allow the film to compete. the film, directed by jean-pierre jeunet, received best actress, picture and director nominations.  last november a court judged the film was too american to compete in french film festivals. two associations of french producers challenged jeunet's right to french government subsidies, because warner bros was a backer. the ruling meant the movie - which was filmed in france and used french actors and technicians - was not eligible to compete for french prizes. but alain terzian, president of cesar organisers, the academie des arts et techniques du cinema, said the changes in eligibility rules, which allow films "of french expression", were made three months prior to the court decision. other films in the best film category include police drama 36, quai des orfevres, arnaud desplechin's kings and queen, abdellatif kechiche's l'esquive and france's number one film at the 2004 box-office the chorus.  best actors are daniel auteuil for 36, mathieu amalric for kings and queen, gerard jugnot for the chorus, philippe torreton for l'equipier and benoit poelvoorde for podium. tautou will compete against maggie cheung , emmanuelle devos, yolande moreau and karin viard for best actress. michael moore's fahrenheit 9/11, the motorcycle diaries, lost in translation, eternal sunshine of the spotless mind and 21 grams are all vying in the best foreign film prize. the awards ceremony will be held on 26 february. this year, will smith, star of i, robot, independence day and men in black, will be given an honorary cesar, along with french singer/actor, jacques dutronc. drive to 'save' festive holidays  efforts are being made to 'protect' workers' days off on christmas day and new year's day.  support is being sought for a bill which would ensure that large retailers in scotland remain closed on christmas day and 1 january. the usdaw trade union said shop workers should be able to enjoy a break with their families. msp karen whitefield wants to ensure only those whose roles are essential are at work over the festive season. in recent years, more stores have been opening on traditional holidays, with some starting their end-of-year sale on christmas day or new year's day. ms whitefield said: "i have found members of the public to be very supportive when i have been campaigning on the streets.  "the early evidence shows quite clearly that the vast majority of people believe that shop workers should be given these two special days to spend with friends and family." usdaw general secretary john hannett added: "christmas day and new year's day are special days for everyone in scotland and the fact that shops do not open is an important part of making them special. they are largely collective days of rest. "we want people to tell karen, through her consultation, whether they want the special nature of these days to remain, or whether they want them to become like any other trading day, with shops open for business as usual." the consultation on a christmas & new year's day trading bill has so far attracted almost 500 responses and closes on 7 february. holmes urged to compete at worlds  jolanda ceplak has urged britain's kelly holmes to continue competing at the major championships.  double olympic gold medallist holmes has strongly hinted she will not run in this year's worlds and is undecided about next month's european indoors. but world indoor 800m record holder ceplak said: "there is never an easy race when she is in the field. there is only excitement at what might happen. "it is good for the sport. she always fetches the best out of everyone." ceplak has been a great rival of holmes' during the briton's career and the pair fell out when holmes questioned the manner of the slovenian's runaway 800m victory at the 2002 european championships. but the controversy has since been forgotten, with ceplak acting as pacemaker for holmes' failed attempt on the british indoor 1500m record at the norwich union grand prix in birmingham in 2003.  ceplak added: "i like running against her - you know the race is always going to be fast. "that is the sort of competition that i like. she is special to me. she was like my idol from the beginning of my career." meanwhile, ceplak will be looking to follow up last saturday's win in boston with a fast time and victory in friday's night of athletics in erfurt, germany. britain's jason gardener had been expected to defend his 60m title in erfurt but instead he will save himself for a competition in leipzig on sunday. gardener's decision means scotland's 400m man ian mackie will carry british hopes in what looks sure to be a tough preparation for next weekend's norwich union european trials in sheffield. digital guru floats sub-$100 pc  nicholas negroponte, chairman and founder of mit's media labs, says he is developing a laptop pc that will go on sale for less than $100 (£53).  he told the bbc world service programme go digital he hoped it would become an education tool in developing countries. he said one laptop per child could be " very important to the development of not just that child but now the whole family, village and neighbourhood". he said the child could use the laptop like a text book. he described the device as a stripped down laptop, which would run a linux-based operating system, "we have to get the display down to below $20, to do this we need to rear project the image rather than using an ordinary flat panel.  "the second trick is to get rid of the fat , if you can skinny it down you can gain speed and the ability to use smaller processors and slower memory." the device will probably be exported as a kit of parts to be assembled locally to keep costs down. mr negroponte said this was a not for profit venture, though he recognised that the manufacturers of the components would be making money. in 1995 mr negroponte published the bestselling being digital, now widely seen as predicting the digital age. the concept is based on experiments in the us state of maine, where children were given laptop computers to take home and do their work on.  while the idea was popular amongst the children, it initially received some resistance from the teachers and there were problems with laptops getting broken. however, mr negroponte has adapted the idea to his own work in cambodia where he set up two schools together with his wife and gave the children laptops. "we put in 25 laptops three years ago , only one has been broken, the kids cherish these things, it's also a tv a telephone and a games machine, not just a textbook." mr negroponte wants the laptops to become more common than mobile phones but conceded this was ambitious. "nokia make 200 million cell phones a year, so for us to claim we're going to make 200 million laptops is a big number, but we're not talking about doing it in three or five years, we're talking about months." he plans to be distributing them by the end of 2006 and is already in discussion with the chinese education ministry who are expected to make a large order. "in china they spend $17 per child per year on textbooks. that's for five or six years, so if we can distribute and sell laptops in quantities of one million or more to ministries of education that's cheaper and the marketing overheads go away." lufthansa may sue over bush visit  german airline lufthansa may sue federal agencies for damages after the arrival of us president george w bush disrupted flights.  lufthansa said that it may lose millions of euros as a result of air force one landing at frankfurt airport. flights were affected for an hour on wednesday morning, double the time that had been expected, leading to cancellations and delays. lufthansa accounts for six out of every 10 planes using frankfurt's airport.  "we are doing research into the possibilities we have," michael lamberty, a lufthansa spokesman told the bbc. "we are checking if there is action to be taken and in which courts it could be taken." mr lamberty explained that the company did not plan to pursue germany's air traffic controllers' organisation or the airport authority but wanted instead to see if it was possible to sue the german federal agencies that gave the orders. the company said that it had to cancel 77 short and medium-distance flights, affecting about 5,000 passengers. long-haul travellers were not disrupted.  central to the problem was that instead of half an hour, the arrival of president bush on the german leg of his european tour took the best part of an hour, lufthansa said. during that time, restrictions were put on planes taxiing, taking off and landing at frankfurt's rhein-main airport. the extra time taken by president bush and his entourage meant that there was a knock-on effect that led to significant delays. mr lamberty said that 92 outgoing flights and 86 income flights were delayed by an average of an hour following president bush's arrival, affecting almost 17,000 passengers. despite the problems, mr lamberty said that it was not certain that lufthansa would take legal action. hollywood ready for oscars night  hollywood is preparing for the biggest night in the film world's calendar, the 77th academy awards, on sunday.  a host of stars are expected to grace the red carpet outside los angeles' kodak theatre, including johnny depp, cate blanchett and leonardo dicaprio. british actors in attendance include nominees clive owen, imelda staunton, kate winslet and director mike leigh. the aviator leads the shortlist, but critics believe the night may belong to clint eastwood's million dollar baby. a recent poll of us pundits found eastwood's boxing drama had become the new favourite to win best film over the howard hughes biopic.  if the 74-year-old does win, he will become the oldest person ever to be named best director at the ceremony. uk critics still favour the aviator for best film, but believe the best director title will generate a close fought battle between eastwood and martin scorsese.  scorsese has never won the best director prize, despite four previous nominations for films including raging bull, goodfellas and gangs of new york. eastwood has won best director once before, for unforgiven in 1993. most experts predict the twice-nominated jamie foxx will win best actor for his portrayal of singer ray charles, while vera drake star imelda staunton looks likely to lose out in the best actress field to hilary swank in million dollar baby. the uk's highest hopes remain with clive owen, who has scooped both the golden globe and the bafta for his supporting role in closer. actor and comedian chris rock will host the event, which will be broadcast with a seven-second time delay to allow censors to cut out any unsuitable content.  "we have the bleep machine ready, but bleeps will be used as needed," producer gil cates told reporters. however, he added that he strongly disapproved of the growing tendency to censor live broadcasts on us tv.  he also played down fears that rock, who is known for using strong language in his stand-up routines, might cause controversy on the night. the 40-year-old comic has already promised not to swear live on air during the show. "chris has a sense of humour and everything he says is really said humorously," cates said. "you need a movie star and someone who is a stand-up comic so they can deal with the vicissitudes of the show." security will also be tight, with police employing a system to detect sarin nerve gas. "we are pulling out all the stops," said john miller, chief of counterterrorism at the los angeles police department. the show is "a symbol of american culture and has the potential to be a high-visibility target," he added. meanwhile, organisers have erected a canopy over the red carpet following an outbreak of torrential rain in los angeles over the past week. cates said the covers would be removed if the threat of wet weather receded. details have also emerged of the contents of this year's gift bags, which are given to nominees and presenters on the night. this year's bags will include a gift certificate for a luxury beach resort, a pair of mink eyelashes and a kitchen set with a year's supply of tea and coffee. the event will be televised by the abc network from 1700 local time (0100 gmt), and on sky movies in the uk from 0130 gmt. blair hails turkey-eu talks deal  tony blair has hailed a deal bringing turkey a step closer to eu membership as important for the world's future "peace and prosperity".  mr blair has been a leading advocate of turkish membership despite controversy surrounding the idea. leaving a brussels summit mr blair said "the fact turkey is a muslim country does not mean it should be barred". the deal to open formal talks with ankara came despite an eu demand for turkey to recognise cyprus. it was agreed the issue can be tackled at a later date but turkish premier recep erdogan had to accept negotiations did not guarantee his country full eu membership.  if it joins, turkey may have to accept restrictions to limit migration by its citizens. mr blair said having turkey in the eu was of "importance to the future peace and prosperity of my country, britain, and the wider world".  "we are stating a fundamental principle that the fact turkey is a muslim country does not mean it should be barred from europe. "on the contrary, if it fulfils the same principles of human rights, then muslim and christian can work together." under the agreement, turkey must issue a written statement promising to sign an accord effectively recognising the greek cypriot government, but gives turkey more time to sell the idea to its people.  the internationally recognised southern part of cyprus is an eu member, but turkey, which occupies northern cyprus, had previously insisted it would not bow to demands to recognise the country, calling the issue a "red line". it could take up to 15 years before turkey is able to join, and entry cannot be guaranteed. the eu has also announced that it will start accession talks with croatia in april 2005. however, talks will begin only if the country co-operates fully with the un war crimes tribunal for the former yugoslavia. mcilroy continues winning streak  james mcilroy stormed to his second international victory in less than a week, claiming the men's 800m at the teag indoor meeting in erfurt.  the northern ireland runner set a new personal best of one minute, 46.68 seconds - a time good enough to qualify for the european indoor championships. "i'm qualified now and that's what matters most," said the 28-year-old. mcilroy is now hoping to gain a late entry into sunday's international indoor meeting in leipzig. the northern irishman is hoping manager ricky simms can swing it for him to compete after he initially withdrew after contracting a cold. after three successive wins over the past fortnight, mcilroy is brimming with confidence. "i've been waiting over six years for this to happen and now i'm certain my career has turned the corner." on friday, mcilroy delivered an impressive run despite suffering from his bad cold. the aaa indoor and outdoor champion accelerated away from the field in the final 300m, beating german wolfram mulle by 0.90 seconds. mcilroy set a world-leading mark for 1,000m at the sparkassen cup in stuttgart last weekend. and his time in erfurt makes him third fastest over 800m in the world this year. looks and music to drive mobiles  mobile phones are still enjoying a boom time in sales, according to research from technology analysts gartner.  more than 674 million mobiles were sold last year globally, said the report, the highest total sold to date. the figure was 30% more than in 2003 and surpassed even the most optimistic predictions, gartner said. good design and the look of a mobile, as well as new services such as music downloads, could go some way to pushing up sales in 2005, said analysts. although people were still looking for better replacement phones, there was evidence, according to gartner, that some markets were seeing a slow-down in replacement sales.  "all the markets grew apart from japan which shows that replacement sales are continuing in western europe," mobile analyst carolina milanesi told the bbc news website. "japan is where north america and western european markets can be in a couple of years' time. "they already have tv, music, ringtones, cameras, and all that we can think of on mobiles, so people have stopped buying replacement phones."  but there could be a slight slowdown in sales in european and us markets too, according to gartner, as people wait to see what comes next in mobile technology. this means mobile companies have to think carefully about what they are offering in new models so that people see a compelling reason to upgrade, said gartner. third generation mobiles (3g) with the ability to handle large amounts of data transfer, like video, could drive people into upgrading their phones, but ms milanesi said it was difficult to say how quickly that would happen. "at the end of the day, people have cameras and colour screens on mobiles and for the majority of people out there who don't really care about technology the speed of data to a phone is not critical." nor would the rush to produce two or three megapixel camera phones be a reason for mobile owners to upgrade on its own. the majority of camera phone models are not at the stage where they can compete with digital cameras which also have flashes and zooms.  more likely to drive sales in 2005 would be the attention to design and aesthetics, as well as music services. the motorola razr v3 phone was typical of the attention to design that would be more commonplace in 2005, she added. this was not a "women's thing", she said, but a desire from men and women to have a gadget that is a form of self-expression too. it was not just about how the phone functioned, but about what it said about its owner. "western europe has always been a market which is quite attentive to design," said ms milanesi.  "people are after something that is nice-looking, and together with that, there is the entertainment side. "this year music will have a part to play in this." the market for full-track music downloads was worth just $20 million (£10.5 million) in 2004, but is set to be worth $1.8 billion (£9.4 million) by 2009, according to jupiter research. sony ericsson just released its walkman branded mobile phone, the w800, which combines a digital music player with up to 30 hours' battery life, and a two megapixel camera. in july last year, motorola and apple announced a version of itunes online music downloading service would be released which would be compatible with motorola mobile phones. apple said the new itunes music player would become motorola's standard music application for its music phones. but the challenge will be balancing storage capacity with battery life if mobile music hopes to compete with digital music players like the ipod. ms milanesi said more models would likely be released in the coming year with hard drives. but they would be more likely to compete with the smaller capacity music players that have around four gigabyte storage capacity, which would not put too much strain on battery life. eu aiming to fuel development aid  european union finance ministers meet on thursday to discuss proposals, including a tax on jet fuel, to boost development aid for poorer nations.  the policy makers are to ask for a report into how more development money can be raised, the eu said. the world's richest countries have said they want to increase the amount of aid they give to 0.7% of their annual gross national income by 2015. airlines have reacted strongly against the proposed fuel levy.  profits have been under pressure in the airline industry, with low-cost firms driving down prices and demand dipping after the 11 september terrorist attacks and the outbreak of the killer sars virus.  things have picked up, but some european and us companies are teetering on the brink of bankruptcy. at present, the fuel used by airlines enjoys either a very low tax rate or is untaxed in eu member states. "of course we applaud humanitarian initiatives, but why target the airlines?" said ulrich schulte-strathaus, secretary general of the association of european airlines. "our industry is in the midst of a fundamental crisis...only to be once again confronted with a measure designed to increase our costs," he continued.  the eu sought to allay the airlines' fears, stressing that thursday's meeting was only a first step and that other proposals were also under consideration. it added that any plan to levy taxes on jet fuel "should not hinder the competitiveness of the airlines and that they themselves will not be solely funding development". any tax would only be implemented after full consultation with the airlines, the eu said. there is thought to be widespread support for the plan - tabled by france and germany following the recent g7 meeting of the world's richest nations - from eu ministers. the issue of poverty in africa and south asia has forced itself to the top of the politicial agenda, with politicians and campaigners calling for more to be done. at their meeting in london, g7 finance ministers backed plans to write off up to 100% of the debts of some of the world's poorest countries. animation charms japan box office  oscar-winning director hayao miyazaki's latest film has set a new japanese box office record, with 1.5bn yen ($14.3m) in two days, according to reports.  howl's moving castle is the follow-up to miyazaki's spirited away, which won best animation at last year's oscars. it is based on the children's book by english writer diana wynne jones. it has registered the highest opening weekend takings of any japanese film in the country, according to trade publication screen daily.  the film is about an 18-year-old girl who is trapped in an old woman's body after being put under a spell by a witch. its two-day takings represented 1.1 million cinema admissions, screen daily said. the film's distributor toho expects 40 million people to see it in total - almost one third of the country's population - it added. the film won the golden osella for outstanding technical contribution at this year's venice film festival. guantanamo pair's passport ban  the government has written to two of the british men freed from guantanamo bay telling them they will not be allowed passports.  a letter sent to martin mubanga said his british passport would not be issued in the light of evidence gathered against him by the us. this suggested he was likely to take part in action against uk or allied targets if he left britain, it said. an identical letter has been sent to feroz abbasi, the men's solicitor says.  it is not known whether the other two men released from the cuba detention camp in january - richard belmar and moazzam begg - have also received letters. the government is implementing the rarely used royal prerogative in order to withdraw the men's passports. it is only the 13th time the power has been used since 1947 - the last time was in 1976. the letter, from the home office, says: "i am writing to inform you that on the basis of the information which has come to light during your detention by the united states, the home secretary considered that there are strong grounds for believing that, on leaving the united kingdom, you would take part in activities against the united kingdom, or allied targets."  the home office said it could not comment on individual cases.  the liberal democrats say they suspect the move is part of a package of security measures agreed with the us in order for the men to be allowed home from guantanamo bay.  home affairs spokesman mark oaten also demanded assurances that the evidence against the men was not gained under torture. he added: "the power should only be used in absolute extreme circumstances and i find it hard to believe that these conditions have been met this time." he said the move also raised complex questions about the use of the royal prerogative. the liberal democrats have promised to raise the issue in parliament.  amnesty international uk also questioned whether the decisions had been based on "torture evidence" obtained at guantanamo bay. "furthermore, we believe there should be an investigation into the role played by the uk in the detention of uk residents and nationals and possibly many others at guantanamo bay," said director kate allen. the men's solicitor, louise christian, has raised questions about whether the evidence was gathered through torture. but the pentagon told bbc news us policy "condemns and prohibits" torture and said there was no evidence that any british detainee was tortured or abused. mr abbasi, 23, from croydon, south london, was taken to guantanamo bay after being captured in afghanistan in 2001. mr mubanga, 29, from north london, was originally detained in zambia. radcliffe will compete in london  paula radcliffe will compete in the flora london marathon this year after deciding her schedule for 2005.  the 31-year-old won the race in 2002 on her marathon debut, defended her title 12 months later and will now seek a third title in the 17 april race. "it doesn't get any better than this for the 25th anniversary," said race director david bedford. "after announcing the greatest men's field ever we now have the greatest women's distance runner ever." three years ago radcliffe smashed the women's world record in two hours 18 minutes 15 seconds.  the bedford star returned to london 12 months later, lowering her mixed-race world record of 2:17:18, which she set in chicago in october 2003, by one minute 53 secs. radcliffe's career took a setback when she failed to complete the olympic marathon and later dropped out of the athens 10,000m last august. but the 31-year-old bounced back to win the new york marathon in november. radcliffe, however, passed up the chance to go for the "big city" marathon grand slam. with wins in chicago, london and new york, only the boston marathon remains to be conquered but that takes place a day after london. "boston is definitely a race i want to do at some point, but london is very special to me," said radcliffe. "i don't pick races thinking about things like pressure. i pick the ones in my heart i really want to do. "i love the atmosphere, crowds and course and know it will always be a great quality race. "it is also the 25th anniversary this year which adds to the occasion." yahoo celebrates a decade online  yahoo, one of the net's most iconic companies, is celebrating its 10th anniversary this week.  the web portal has undergone remarkable change since it was set up by stanford university students david filo and jerry yang in a campus trailer. the students wanted a way of keeping track of their web-based interests. the categories lists they devised soon became popular to hundreds of people and the two saw business potential in their idea.  originally dubbed "jerry's guide to the world wide web" the firm adopted the moniker yahoo because the founders liked the dictionary definition of a yahoo as a rude, unsophisticated, uncouth person. the term was popularised by the 18th century satirist jonathan swift in his classic novel, gulliver's travels. "we were certainly not sophisticated or civilised," mr yang told reporters ahead of the anniversary, which will be officially recognised on 2 march.  they did have business brains however, and in april 1995 persuaded venture capitalists sequoia capital, which also invested in apple computer and cisco systems, to fund yahoo to the tune of $2m (£1.04m). a second round of funding followed in the autumn and the company floated in april 1996 with less than 50 employees. now the firm employs 7,600 workers and insists its dot com culture of "work hard, play hard" still remains. it is one of just a handful of survivors of the dot-com crash although it now faces intense rivalry from firms such as google, msn and aol. jerry yang, who remains the firm's "chief yahoo", is proud of what the company has achieved. "in just one decade, the internet has changed the way consumers do just about everything - and it's been a remarkable and wonderful experience," he said. through it all, we wanted to build products that satisfied our users wants and needs, but it's even more than that - it's to help every one of us to discover, get more done, share and interact." german business confidence slides  german business confidence fell in february knocking hopes of a speedy recovery in europe's largest economy.  munich-based research institute ifo said that its confidence index fell to 95.5 in february from 97.5 in january, its first decline in three months. the study found that the outlook in both the manufacturing and retail sectors had worsened. observers had been hoping that a more confident business sector would signal that economic activity was picking up.  "we're surprised that the ifo index has taken such a knock," said dz bank economist bernd weidensteiner. "the main reason is probably that the domestic economy is still weak, particularly in the retail trade." economy and labour minister wolfgang clement called the dip in february's ifo confidence figure "a very mild decline". he said that despite the retreat, the index remained at a relatively high level and that he expected "a modest economic upswing" to continue.  germany's economy grew 1.6% last year after shrinking in 2003. however, the economy contracted by 0.2% during the last three months of 2004, mainly due to the reluctance of consumers to spend. latest indications are that growth is still proving elusive and ifo president hans-werner sinn said any improvement in german domestic demand was sluggish. exports had kept things going during the first half of 2004, but demand for exports was then hit as the value of the euro hit record levels making german products less competitive overseas. on top of that, the unemployment rate has been stuck at close to 10% and manufacturing firms, including daimlerchrysler, siemens and volkswagen, have been negotiating with unions over cost cutting measures. analysts said that the ifo figures and germany's continuing problems may delay an interest rate rise by the european central bank. eurozone interest rates are at 2%, but comments from senior officials have recently focused on the threat of inflation, prompting fears that interest rates may rise. us box office set for record high  ticket sales at the us box office are predicted to break records this year, with figures expected to reach $9.4 billion, beating 2002's all-time high.  overall figures could be dampened by the lack of a christmas hit like last year's oscar-winning lord of the rings. traditionally, ticket sales during the festive season account for 20% of the annual total. although admissions have actually fallen this year, the predicted high is down to increasing ticket prices. according to exhibitor relations president paul dergarabedian, the average cost of a cinema ticket could be as high as $6.25 in 2004, compared to $5.80 in 2002. this year some of the biggest hits such as the passion of the christ and fahrenheit 9/11 came from outside the major studios which are usually responsible for the key blockbusters.  "many of the films that did well (with audiences) are not necessarily the films that made a lot of money," said mr dergarabedian. he added that surprise hits had come from some of the more art-house offerings such as napoleon dynamite and critical hit sideways. sony pictures, responsible for hits like spiderman 2 and the grudge, are expected to top domestic market share for the second time in three years, with $1 billion-plus in sales for the third consecutive year. sony pictures entertainment vice chairman. jeff blake said: "we had a really diverse slate this year, and... certainly we pulled off one of the surprises with grudge." horror movie the grudge cost sony $10 million to make but brought in $110 million. it's the latest in a recent trend for hollywood studios to back the upper and lower ends of the market, whilst ignoring the middle. warner inc are likely to end the year in second place on market share with around $1.25 billion, with disney at number three. commons hunt protest charges  eight protesters who stormed the house of commons chamber during a debate on the hunting bill have been charged with disorderly conduct.  the men were arrested in september after bursting into the chamber causing a hunting ban debate to be halted. those charged included otis ferry, the 22-year-old son of rock star bryan ferry and luke tomlinson, 27, a close friend of princes william and harry. they were charged under section 5 of the public order act, police said.  five of the eight men held an impromptu news conference outside charing cross police station on monday evening, after the charges were formerly put to them. the men's solicitor matthew knight, said that at no time had it occurred to the men that they were committing a criminal offence.  "there is no offence of trespassing in the house of commons - it is not a criminal offence," he said. "if parliament wanted to make entering the house of commons chamber on foot a criminal offence it should have done so, but it can't do so retrospectively. "we are not prosecuted for that. we are prosecuted for a public order act offence. we are not guilty of it." they will appear at bow street magistrates' court on 21 december, a police spokesman said. otis ferry, a former eton pupil and joint leader of the south shropshire hunt, said: "i have no regrets. "we have done nothing wrong beyond the obvious which was to stand up for our rights and not act like a sheep like the rest of the country." one of the men, david redvers, 34, from hartpury, gloucestershire, said he and the other seven protesters would plead not guilty to the charges.  the other protesters are john holliday, 37, a huntsman from ledbury, herefordshire, robert thame, 34, who plays polo with princes charles in team highgrove, auctioneer andrew elliot, 42, from bromesberrow, near ledbury, point-to-point jockey richard wakeham, 34, from york, and former royal chef nick wood, 41. the 15 september protest came on the same day as a huge pro-hunting demonstration in parliament square. four of the men ran out from behind the speaker's chair while another wrestled past a doorkeeper from a different entrance. the five tried to confront mps before they were bundled out of the chamber and later led away handcuffed by police. three others had been intercepted by security staff as they tried to join the five in the chamber.  speaker michael martin later said the men had used a forged letter to gain access to the house of commons and had been helped to get close to the chamber by a parliamentary pass holder. in november, the use of the parliament act meant a total ban on hunting with dogs in england and wales. however, many pro-hunt activists remained defiant after the law was passed, saying they would ignore the ban and continue to hunt. last week, the countryside alliance said more than 250 hunts would meet legally the day after the ban on hunting with dogs comes into force. the alliance said the 19 february meets would show the new law was "impossibly difficult to determine" and open to different interpretations. britain boosted by holmes double  athletics fans endured a year of mixed emotions in 2004 as stunning victories went hand-in-hand with disappointing defeats and more drugs scandals.  kelly holmes finally fulfilled her potential by storming to double gold on the track at the olympic games. holmes helped erase the gloom hanging over team gb after their biggest medal hope, paula radcliffe, dropped out of the marathon and then the 10,000m. britain's men's 4x100m relay team also did their bit by taking a shock gold. holmes had started the year in disappointing style, falling over in the final of 1500m at the world indoor championships where she was favourite. her olympic build-up was clouded by self doubt but that proved unfounded as she overhauled rival maria mutola to win the 800m - her first global title. just five days later, the 34-year-old made it double gold in the 1500m. it was the first time in 84 years a briton has achieved the olympic middle-distance double. while holmes left athens as the star of team gb, it was radcliffe who carried expectations before the august games.  the 30-year-old marathon world record holder went into the athens event as favourite but an exhausted radcliffe dropped out after 23 miles in tears. her decision to enter the 10,000m five days later also backfired as she again pulled out with eight laps remaining.  but radcliffe helped put her olympic trauma behind her with a thrilling win in november's new york marathon. the 4x100m team grabbed some last-gasp glory for the british men's olympic squad after a poor start to the games.  it seemed as though athens would be the first games where the men would fail to win a medal with michael east the only individual track finalist in the 1500m. but darren campell, jason gardener, marlon devonish and mark lewis-francis made amends in the sprint relay. the quartet held off favourites the usa to win britain's first relay medal since 1912 in 38.07 seconds. gardener added the olympic relay crown to his world indoor title over 60m and, just like holmes, finally lived up to his promise in 2004. kelly sotherton completed team gb's athletics medal haul in athens with a surprise bronze in the heptathlon. the 28-year-old won her first championship medal since becoming a full-time athlete in 2003.  but it was a different story for britain's defending champion denise lewis, who withdrew on day two of the competition after some poor results. lewis, who was troubled by injury, has ruled out retiring while sotherton is tipped to build on her success. the athens olympics proved to be a landmark occasion for steve backley, who retired from competition after finishing fourth in the javelin. the battling 35-year-old leaves the sport with a vast medal haul including two silvers and one olympic bronze.  and backley's departure was balanced by the return of injury-hit decathlete dean macey, who came fourth in athens.  the continued improvement of sprinter abi oyepitan and long jumper chris tomlinson also boosted team gb. sadly, the 2004 olympics did not escape the problems of drugs misuse. on the eve of the games, greek sprinters kostas kenteris and katerina thanou missed a drugs test and claimed to have been involved in a road crash.  kenteris, the 200m champion in 2000, and thanou have since been charged by the greek authorities and await trial. at the games, adrian annus (hammer), robert fazelas (discus) and irina korzhanenko (shot) were all stripped of their titles because of doping issues. hungarian compatriots annus and fazelas both refused to give urine samples while russian korzhanenko tested positive for the steroid stanozolol.  the fallout from the thg scandal, which rocked the sport in 2003, continued to impact in olympic year. britain's 4x100m team took gold without the services of dwain chambers, who was handed a two-year ban in february after testing positive for steroid thg.  american kelli white was suspended and stripped of her world 100m and 200m titles after failing a drugs test. and world 400m champion jerome young landed a life ban from us chiefs after a second doping offence. russian pole vaulter yelena isinbayeva provided some light relief by smashing the world record seven times on her way to the world indoor and olympic titles. her rivalry with compatriot svetlana feofanova livened up the field events. morocco's hicham el guerrouj also delighted fans by racing to a historic olympic double in the 1500m and 5,000m.  and though there was no paula radcliffe in the london marathon, there was plenty of drama as kenyans evans rutto and margaret okayo took the titles. rutto held on to win despite slipping on some cobblestones and tumbling into a barrier. okayo also had to battle back after mistiming her tactics but clinched victory on her debut. kenyan school turns to handhelds  at the mbita point primary school in western kenya students click away at a handheld computer with a stylus.  they are doing exercises in their school textbooks which have been digitised. it is a pilot project run by eduvision, which is looking at ways to use low cost computer systems to get up-to-date information to students who are currently stuck with ancient textbooks. matthew herren from eduvision told the bbc programme go digital how the non-governmental organisation uses a combination of satellite radio and handheld computers called e-slates. "the e-slates connect via a wireless connection to a base station in the school. this in turn is connected to a satellite radio receiver. the data is transmitted alongside audio signals." the base station processes the information from the satellite transmission and turns it into a form that can be read by the handheld e-slates. "it downloads from the satellite and every day processes the stream, sorts through content for the material destined for the users connected to it. it also stores this on its hard disc."  the system is cheaper than installing and maintaining an internet connection and conventional computer network. but mr herren says there are both pros and cons to the project. "it's very simple to set up, just a satellite antenna on the roof of the school, but it's also a one-way connection, so getting feedback or specific requests from end users is difficult."  the project is still at the pilot stage and eduvision staff are on the ground to attend to teething problems with the linux-based system. "the content is divided into visual information, textual information and questions. users can scroll through these sections independently of each other." eduvision is planning to include audio and video files as the system develops and add more content. mr herren says this would vastly increase the opportunities available to the students. he is currently in negotiations to take advantage of a project being organised by search site google to digitise some of the world's largest university libraries. "all books in the public domain, something like 15 million, could be put on the base stations as we manufacture them. then every rural school in africa would have access to the same libraries as the students in oxford and harvard" currently the project is operating in an area where there is mains electricity. but mr herren says eduvision already has plans to extend it to more remote regions. "we plan to put a solar panel at the school with the base station, have the e-slates charge during the day when the children are in school, then they can take them home at night and continue working." maciej sundra, who designed the user interface for the e-slates, says the project's ultimate goal is levelling access to knowledge around the world. "why in this age when most people do most research using the internet are students still using textbooks? the fact that we are doing this in a rural developing country is very exciting - as they need it most." fao warns on impact of subsidies  billions of farmers' livelihoods are at risk from falling commodity prices and protectionism, the un's food & agriculture organisation has warned.  trade barriers and subsidies "severely" distort the market, the fao report on the "state of agricultural commodity markets 2004" said. as a result, the 2.5 billion people in the developing world who rely on farming face food insecurity. the most endangered are those who live in the least-developed countries. the fao report said that support for farmers in industrialised nations was equivalent to 30 times the amount provided as aid for agricultural development in poor countries.  the fao has urged the world trade organisation to swiftly conclude negotiations to liberalise trade, easing developing countries' access to the world market. it also criticised the high tariffs imposed by both developed and developing nations. it recommends that developing countries reduce their own tariffs to encourage trade and take advantage of market liberalisation.  according to the organisation, subsidies and high tariffs have a strong impact on the trade of products such as cotton and rice. global exports of these products are mainly in the hands of the european union and the us, who - thanks to subsidies - sell them at very low prices. in fact, almost 30 wealthy nations spend more than $300bn (£158.8bn; 230.9bn euros) in agricultural subsidies. the market situation has divided developing nations in two groups, the fao said. the first group have a reasonably diverse range of agricultural products while in the second group, agriculture lies largely in the hands of small-scale producers. for 43 developing countries, more than 20% of their export incomes come from the sale of just one product. these countries are mainly situated in sub-saharan africa, latin america and the caribbean. low-budget film wins cesar  a film that follows a group of alienated youth in a paris suburb as they prepare to perform an 18th century play has won france's top cinema award.  l'esquive earned a cesar prize for its director, tunisian-born abdellatif kechiche, and its young star, the 18-year-old actress sara forestier. it saw off competition from big-budget french epic, a very long engagement, and the box-office hit, the chorus. us film lost in translation won the award for best foreign feature. the wistful romantic comedy directed by sofia coppola has already won several awards, including an oscar for best screenplay in 2004. its late release in france made it a contender for this year's cesars.  the low-budget l'esquive depicts the travails of a group of youth getting ready to perform a school play by the 18th-century dramatist, marivaux. the actors are mostly amateurs and the action is set in the impoverished suburbs of paris, home to thousands of immigrants from north africa and their children. kechiche said he made the film because he "wanted to show people we don't normally see at the cinema". a very long engagement, a world war i drama featuring audrey tautou, won five cesar awards. the chorus, a film about a schoolteacher who introduces an unruly classroom to the pleasures of classical singing, won two awards - for best music and best sound. us actor will smith, who won an honorary award at the ceremony, thanked his family and his "hero", nelson mandela, in his speech. child access laws shake-up  parents who refuse to allow former partners contact with their children could be electronically tagged under plans being considered by ministers. curfews and community service orders were other options which could be used if court orders to allow parental access were defied, lord falconer said. the constitutional affairs secretary outlined some of the plans on tuesday. he denied fathers' activists had forced the changes, telling the bbc "there is a recognition that something is wrong". between 15,000 and 20,000 couples go to court to resolve access disputes each year, although in nine out of 10 separations there is no court intervention.  lord falconer told bbc radio 4's today programme he hoped voluntary mediation could help solve disputes before they reached court. but he opposed compulsory mediation, saying that it would lead to many people taking part with the wrong attitude. other plans include:    - parenting plans to give advice on access arrangements, based on real-life examples that have worked in the past   - extending in-court conciliation - more informal hearings before contested court cases   - better access to legal, emotional and practical advice by telephone and internet   - legal aid changes to give incentives for early resolution of disputes.     judges can already jail parents who breach contact orders but that was a "nuclear option" which was rarely used as it was not seen as being in the child's interests, a spokesman said. the aim of the new legislation was to provide a "medium range" of penalties, such as fines, community service orders, compulsory anger management or parenting classes or curfews.  failure to comply with these measures could result in offenders being electronically tagged. on the possibility of tagging uncooperative parents, lord falconer said: "tagging may be going too far, but let's have a debate about that." full details of the new powers will not be revealed until a bill is published "in the next two weeks," a spokesman said.  the government's proposals have met with disapproval from fathers' rights groups. john ison, from the controversial group fathers 4 justice, said: "it is very disappointing. what we have got is a cynical case of recycling existing legislation." jim parton, from families need fathers, said the new proposals "lacked compulsion".  "we would like to see couples develop a plan and then have it as a source of a court order - then you know where you stand, you know what the minimum access is. "otherwise, you see people make agreements which then fall apart." mr parton said he had been told by children's minister margaret hodge there was not enough time to pass the bill through parliament before the general election, which is likely to take place in may.  the conservatives have called for an equal split between parents on access to be made law. theresa may, shadow secretary for the family, told bbc radio 4's today programme that the government's plans were "inadequate" and were "papering over the cracks of the current system". she said a conservative government would bring a "radical reform" of the family courts, as well as enforcing a "legal presumption of co-parenting and compulsory mediation". "we want to make courts the last resort, rather than the first resort," she added. the government says children cannot simply be divided up "like property" when a marriage collapses. the liberal democrats have argued for flexibility in deciding access rules, rather than having "rigid targets". lewis-francis eyeing world gold  mark lewis-francis says his olympic success has made him determined to bag world championship 100m gold in 2005.  the 22-year-old pipped maurice greene on the last leg of the 4x100m relay in athens to take top honours for team gb. but individually, the birchfield harrier has yet to build on his world junior championship win four years ago. "the gold medal in athens has made me realise that i can get to the top level and i want to get there again. it can happen, i don't see why not," he said. lewis-francis has still to decided what events will feature in his build-up to the worlds - with one exception. he has confirmed his participation in the norwich union grand prix in birmingham on 18 february, where he will take on another member of britain's victorious men's relay team - jason gardener - over 60m. he added: "it's a bit too early to make any predictions for helsinki, but i have my eyes open and i know i can be the best in the world." tough rules for ringtone sellers  firms that flout rules on how ringtones and other mobile extras are sold could be cut off from all uk phone networks.  the rules allow offenders to be cut off if they do not let consumers know exactly what they get for their money and how to turn off the services. the first month under the new rules has seen at least ten firms suspended while they clean up the way they work. the rules have been brought in to ensure that the problems plaguing net users do not spread to mobile phones.  in the last couple of years ringtones, wallpapers, screensavers and lots of other extras for phones have become hugely popular. but fierce competition is making it difficult for firms to get their wares in front of consumers, said jeremy flynn, head of third party services at vodafone.  "if you are not on the operator's portal you are going to have quite heavy marketing costs because it's a problem of how people discover your services," he said. to combat this many ringtone and other mobile content sellers started using a new tactic to squeeze more cash out of customers. this tactic involved signing people up for a subscription to give them, for instance, several ringtones per week or month instead of the single track they thought they were getting. mr flynn said that the move to using subscriptions happened over the space of a few weeks at the end of 2004. websites such as grumbletext.co.uk started getting reports from customers who were racking up large bills for phone content they did not know they had signed up for. "what made us uncomfortable was that these services were not being marketed transparently," said mr flynn. "people did not know they were being offered a subscription service." "we saw potential for substantial consumer harm here," he added.  the swift adoption of subscription services led to the creation of a new code of conduct for firms that want to sell content for mobile phones. the drafting of the new rules was led by the mobile entertainment forum and the uk's phone firms. "everyone is required to conform to this code of conduct," said andrew bud, regulatory head of the mef and executive chairman of messaging firm mblox.  "it's all about transparency," he said. "consumers have to be told what they have got themselves into and how to get out of it." "the consumer has a right to be protected," he said. christian harris, partnership manager of mobile content firm zed, said the new system was essential if consumers were to trust companies that sell ringtones and other downloads. "the groundrules must be applied across the whole industry and if that's done effectively we will see the cowboys driven out," he said. the new rules came in to force on 15 january and the first month under the new regime has seen many firms cautioned for not honouring them. some have been told to revamp websites so customers know what they get for their money and what they are signing up for, said mr flynn. also, said mr flynn, vodafone has briefly cut off between eight and ten content sellers flouting the rules. "we have quite draconian contracts with firms," he said. "we do not have to say why. we can just cut them off." under the rules consumers must be able to switch off the services by using a universal "stop" command sent via text message. he said the system had been designed to limit how much a consumer will pay if they inadvertently signed up for a service. "the mobile is so personal that people really resent the abuse of what is effectively part of their personality," said mr flynn. india seeks to boost construction  india has cleared a proposal allowing up to 100% foreign direct investment in its construction sector.  kamal nath, commerce and industry minister, announced the decision in delhi on thursday following a cabinet meeting. analysts say improving india's infrastructure will boost foreign investment in other sectors too. the indian government's decision has spread good cheer in the construction sector, according to some indian firms.  a spokesman for dlf builders, dr vancheshwar, told the bbc this will mean "better offerings" for consumers as well as builders. he said the firm will benefit from world class "strategic partnerships, design expertise and technology, while consumers will have better choice."  the government proposal states that foreign investment of up to 100% will be allowed on the 'automatic route' in the construction sector, on projects including housing, hotels, resorts, hospitals and educational establishments. the automatic route means that construction companies need only get one set of official approvals and do not need to gain clearance from the foreign investment promotion board, which can be bureaucratic. the government hopes its new policy will create employment for construction workers, and benefit steel and brick-making industries.  mr nath also announced plans to allow foreign investors to develop a smaller area of any land they acquired. "foreign investors can enter any construction development area, be it to build resorts, townships or commercial premises but they will have to construct at least 50,000 square meters (538,000 square feet) within a specific timeframe," said mr nath, without specifying the timeframe. previously foreign investors had to develop a much larger area, discouraging some from entering the indian market. this measure is designed to discourage foreign investors from buying and selling land speculatively, without developing it. anshuman magazine, managing director, of cb richard ellis - an international real estate company - told the bbc this was "a big positive step."  however, chittabrata majumdar, general secretary of the centre of indian trade unions (citu), said allowing fdi in the country is compromising india's own "self reliance". he said, "no country can develop on the basis of foreign investment alone." mr majumdar also said an assessment should be made as to whether foreign investment is indeed beneficial to the country - in terms of employment and money generated - or just another way of international companies filling their deep pockets. tautou 'to star in da vinci film'  french actress audrey tautou, star of hit film amelie, will play the female lead in the film adaptation of the da vinci code, it has been reported.  the movie version of dan brown's best-selling novel is being directed by ron howard and also stars tom hanks. tautou will play hanks' code-cracking partner, according to various newspapers. she is currently starring in a very long engagement, directed by jean-pierre jeunet. jeunet was also responsible for directing tautou in amelie in 2001, which launched the actress into the mainstream.  she also starred as the lead role in critically-acclaimed film dirty pretty things in 2002. oscar-winning director ron howard chose tautou for the part, preferring a french actress to a big name hollywood star. uk actress kate beckinsale had been widely tipped as a possibility for the role alongside vanessa paradis and juliette binoche. the thriller upon which the movie is based has sold more than 17 million copies and is centred on a global conspiracy surrounding the holy grail mythology. the louvre museum, scene of the gruesome murder at the beginning of the novel, recently gave permission for filming to take place there, showbusiness newspaper variety reported. the $100m movie will be produced by columbia/sony pictures and is due for release on may 19, 2006 in the united states and france. mps to debate 'euthanasia laws'  mps are preparing to debate a bill which critics claim would legalise euthanasia "by the back door".  the bill would give legal force to "living wills", where people say they want medical treatment withheld if they become severely incapacitated. the mental capacity bill has broad support from charities who say it would give better safeguards over treatment. but christian groups say it could mean doctors withholding food and fluids even if they think it inappropriate.  ministers insist the mental capacity bill - for england and wales - would not change laws on assisted suicide and contains a presumption in favour of preserving life.  the bill would establish a legal presumption that everybody can make decisions about their own treatment unless proved otherwise. it would allow people to give somebody the power of attorney to make decisions on their behalf, which could be challenged by doctors. critics fear it could allow "killing by omission" through withdrawing treatment. an amendment to the bill - specifically preventing decisions that would bring about death - has been tabled by former conservative leader iain duncan smith. ninety one mps have signed a petition backing the amendment. mps could vote on it later on tuesday, during the bill's report stage debate. the bill will then go to a third reading and be debated in the lords, before becoming law.  the christian medical fellowship (cmf) and lawyers' christian fellowship (lcf) said the mental capacity bill would allow euthanasia by the "back door". peter saunders of the cmf said it believed advance refusals should be only advisory, not legally binding. "cmf is concerned that patients will make unwise and hasty advance decisions to refuse food and fluids without being properly informed about the diagnosis and the expected course their illness will take," he said.  the lcf's andrea williams said there were "too many loopholes that could be abused by unscrupulous doctors". ex-labour minister frank field told bbc two's newsnight programme there was a danger people would feel under pressure to "do away" with themselves so relatives could inherit their assets.  constitutional affairs minister david lammy said laws affecting 750,000 people with dementia needed updating. mr lammy told bbc news labour mps would not get a free vote as the law was being strengthened, not changed. "we are against euthanasia, we are against assisted suicide but we are in a situation now where people can make living wills and that has the force of the common law," he said. "doctors are saying they want more clarity. patients are saying they want more clarity." the making decisions alliance, which includes the alzheimer's society, age concern, mencap and the national autistic society, said misunderstandings over the bill had to be cleared up. "it will not change the current law on euthanasia and will actually provide a series of better safeguards when decisions are made for people who lack capacity," the alliance said in a statement. the british medical association also backs the bill, saying it just gives incapacitated people the same rights as others. debate on legalising euthanasia has intensified in the uk because of cases like that of motor neurone patient diane pretty. she died two years ago after losing a legal battle to allow her husband to help her commit suicide. gb select holmes for double bid  kelly holmes has been chosen for both the 800m and 1500m at next month's european indoor championships - despite not yet confirming her availability.  the double-olympic champion is still undecided about whether to compete in her first european indoors in madrid. but uk athletics chief max jones believes it is likely holmes will race. he said: "it's worth a punt, isn't it? she's gone back to training. if she's confident she will pick one (distance). the programme does not permit both." if holmes does take her place in the gb side, she has already indicated that 1500m will be her favoured distance. under championship rules, she does not have to decide until 24 hours before the event begins in madrid on 4 march. jones added: "she was pleased with her run in birmingham (at last weekend's grand prix). "i am inclined to think she will (compete). it could depend on how training goes and she will have to be close to top form." and he admitted holmes' presence would be a great boost to the rest of the norwich union gb team. "she is a very good team member and is very good to have there," he added. meanwhile, there is no surprises in the rest of the great britain team announced on tuesday.  defending 60m champion jason gardener is included and will be chasing his third successive gold medal. he will be joined in the event by mark lewis-francis - runner-up behind him three years ago in vienna - and new boy darren chin. kelly sotherton has been invited by championship organisers to compete against carolina kluft in the pentathlon. sotherton finished third in the olympic heptathlon in athens, where the swede took gold. there are 16 newcomers at this level of competition in gb's 46-strong team. the championships will be the last to be attended by jones before he retires to be succeeded by dave collins. jones said: "the olympic games is the overwhelming target for uka and therefore it is beneficial to start the next four-year cycle with a not-so-pressurised major games. "the european indoor championships always provide a chance for the young and inexperienced to make a name for themselves and the current indoor season has produced some exciting new talent. "madrid is the first small step on a long journey to beijing and the 2008 olympics but for some of the emerging athletes, this will be a very important step."  60m: d chin (belgrave harriers), j gardener (wessex and bath), m lewis-francis (birchfield harriers).  t abeyie (woodford green with essex ladies), c lambert (belgrave harriers).  d garland (channel islands ac).  j mcilroy (windsor, slough, eton and hounslow ac), jimmy watkins (cardiff aac).  ed jackson (aldershot, farnham and district), n speaight (belgrave harriers), j thie (cardiff aac).  a baddeley (harrow ac), m farah (windsor, slough, eton and hounslow ac), j mayock (barnsley ac).  d greaves (newham and essex beagles), a scott (shaftesbury barnet harriers), a turner (notts ac).  b challenger (belgrave harriers). pole vault: n buckfield (crawley ac).  n morgan (birchfield harriers), c tomlinson (newham and essex beagles).  l achike (shaftesbury barnet harriers), n douglas (oxford city ac), p idowu (belgrave harriers).  d cossins (birchfield harriers), r davenport (gloucester ac), d garland (channel islands ac), r preddy (gloucester ac), g warburton (cardiff aac).  k endacott (city of plymouth ac), j kwakye (woodford green with essex ladies), j maduaka (woodford green with essex ladies).  k wall (basildon ac).  k holmes (ealing, southall and middlesex ac).  h clitheroe (preston harriers), k holmes (ealing, southall and middlesex ac).  j pavey (exeter harriers).  d allahgreen (trafford ac), s claxton (belgrave harriers).  j crane (sale harriers manchester), s jones (trafford ac).  j whitlock (trafford ac).  j johnson (herne hill harriers).  k sotherton (birchfield harriers).  d fraser (croydon harriers), l mcconnell (shaftesbury barnet harriers), c murphy (woodford green with essex ladies), m purkiss (southampton ac). creator of first apple mac dies  jef raskin, head of the team behind the first macintosh computer, has died.  mr raskin was one of the first employees at apple and made many of the design decisions that made the mac so distinctive when it was first released. he led the team that decided to use a graphical interface and mouse that let people navigate around the computer by pointing and clicking. the 1984 release of the mac reflected mr raskin's belief that good design should make computers easy to use.  mr raskin joined apple in 1978 as employee number 31, initially to lead the company's publications department. however, in 1979 he was put in charge of a small team to design a computer that lived up to his idea of a machine that was cheap, aimed at consumers rather than computer professionals and was very easy to use.  the result was the 1984 macintosh that did away with the then common text-based interface in favour of one based around graphics that resembled a virtual desktop and used folders and documents. users navigated around the machine using a mouse and by pointing, clicking and dragging. although now in common use in almost all computers, these methods were pioneering when first used in the macintosh. the gui was developed by xerox parc, and used in its star machine. but the acceptance of the interface did not truly begin until the concept was developed for use by apple in its pioneering lisa computer. "his role on the macintosh was the initiator of the project, so it wouldn't be here if it weren't for him," said andy hertzfeld, an early macintosh team member. although mr raskin drove the team that created the macintosh he did not stay at apple to see it released. in 1981 he was removed from the project following a dispute with apple's mercurial boss steve jobs. in 1982, mr raskin left apple entirely. the macintosh was reputedly named after mr raskin's favourite apple, though the name was changed slightly following a trademark dispute with another company. after leaving apple, mr raskin founded another company called information appliance and continued to work on better ways to interface with computers. he was also an accomplished musician, played three instruments and conducted san francisco's chamber opera society. mr raskin was diagnosed in december 2004 with pancreatic cancer and died on 26 february at his home in california. boeing unveils new 777 aircraft  us aircraft firm boeing has unveiled its new long-distance 777 plane, as it tries to regain its position as the industry's leading manufacturer.  the 777-200lr will be capable of flying almost 11,000 miles non-stop, linking cities such as london and sydney. boeing, in contrast to european rival airbus, hopes airlines will want to fly smaller aircraft over longer distances. airbus, which overtook boeing as the number one civilian planemaker in 2003, is focusing on so-called super jumbos.  analysts are divided over which approach is best and say that this latest tussle between boeing and airbus may prove to be a defining moment for the airline industry. boeing plans to offer twin-engine planes that are able to fly direct to many of the world's airports, getting rid of the need for connecting flights.  it is banking on smaller, slimmer planes such as the 777-200lr and its much-anticipated 787 dreamliner plane, which is set to take to the skies in 2008. the 777-200lr, which had its launch delayed by the 11 september attacks in the us, is the fifth variation of boeing's twin-aisle 777 plane. the company offically "rolled-out" the new 777 in seattle at 2200 gmt. better fuel efficiency from engines made by ge and lighter materials mean that the plane can connect almost any two cities worldwide.  "boeing has the latest variant in a very successful line of airplanes and there is no doubt it will continue to be very successful," said david learmount, operations and safety editor at industry magazine flight international. but the 777-200lr "is a niche player", mr learmount continued, adding that reach was not the only criteria airlines used when picking their aircraft. mr learmount pointed out that the 777-200lr has been on the market for a couple of years and only had limited success at attracting orders. he also said that while the plane may be able to fly to sydney from london in one hit, prevailing winds meant that it would have to stop somewhere on the return journey.  for airbus, the future is big - it is pinning its hopes on planes that can carry as many as 840 people between large hub airports. from there, passengers would be ferried to their final destinations by smaller planes. airbus is also keeping its options open and plans to compete in all the main categories of aircraft. it has been producing a rival to boeing's 777 line for more than a year. "airbus is now where boeing was a few years ago" with its product range, said flight international's mr learmount.  both boeing and airbus have been taking orders for their new planes. boeing said it expected to sell about 500 of its 777-200lr planes over the next 20 years. it already has orders from pakistan international airlines and eva of taiwan. these orders should help underpin the company's profits. boeing said earnings during the last three months of 2004 dropped by 84% because of costs relating to stopping production of its smallest airliner, the 717, and the cancellation of a us air force 767 tanker contract. net profit was $186m (£98m; 143m euros) in the quarter, compared with $1.13bn in the same period in 2003. foxx and swank take actors awards  jamie foxx and hilary swank have won the screen actors guild awards for best male and female film actors, boosting their oscars hopes this month.  foxx's portrayal of late soul-singer ray charles in ray had already earned him a prestigious golden globe award. swank triumphed for playing a gutsy female boxer in million dollar baby. modest wine country comedy sideways knocked out favourites million dollar baby and the aviator by taking the top prize for best cast performance.  the screen actors guild (sag) represents us film and tv actors. its winners often go on to win oscars. in other nominations, cate blanchett triumphed as the best supporting actress for her role as katharine hepburn in the aviator. veteran actor morgan freeman took the best supporting actor award for playing a prize-fighter turned gym manager in million dollar baby.  "thank you for ray charles for just living so complex and so interesting, and making us all just come together," said foxx, accepting his award in los angeles on saturday.  he also praised the film director: "thank you for taylor hackford for taking a chance with an african-american film. taylor, you're my director of the year." swank, too, was full of praise for her director and co-star clint eastwood. "i bow down to you," swank said to the 74-year-old eastwood. "you are a talent beyond compare. if i'm half the person you are and half the talent you are when i'm 74, i will know that i've accomplished something great."  both foxx and swank are now considered to be among the favourites to get oscars - the hollywood's ultimate prize. however, swank has to overcome a strong challenge from annette bening, a nominee for the theatre farce being julia. meanwhile, ballots for oscars - the hollywood's top honours - were mailed earlier this week to members of the academy of motion picture arts and sciences. the voting is due to end on 22 february - five days before the ceremony. talks aim to avert pension strike  talks aimed at averting a series of national strikes over pensions reforms will take place this weekend.  five public sector unions will hold private talks with deputy prime minister john prescott at labour's spring conference in gateshead. they want the government to withdraw regulations - due to be introduced in weeks - which would raise the pension age for council workers from 60 to 65. up to 1.4m workers could take part in a strike already earmarked for 23 march. however, all sides are anxious to avoid a major confrontation in the run up to the general election, said bbc labour affairs correspondent stephen cape. in four days, britain's biggest union unison will start balloting 800,000 local government workers on strikes. other public sector unions have pledged to follow. it is just weeks before new regulations are introduced to raise the pension age of local government workers.  the five unions meeting mr prescott want the government to withdraw these regulations. this would allow months of tough negotiations to follow, said our correspondent. but a spokesman for mr prescott warned that the changes to the local government pension scheme would have to go ahead in april. privately ministers believe this will be the "less painful" option, our correspondent added. the public and commercial services union (pcs) will co-ordinate any industrial action with up to six other public sector unions. pcs leader mark serwotka warned last week that there could be further walkouts unless there was a government rethink. "for a government that lectures everyone on choice - choice on public service, choice on this and choice on that - isn't it ironic that they're saying to public sector workers there is no choice," he said. "if you want the pension you were promised when you started you must work for an extra five years - that is working until people drop. "in the 20th century, it's completely unacceptable."  unison's 800,000 workers, the transport and general workers' union's 70,000 and amicus' 20,000 are among those being balloted about a 23 march walkout. mr prescott held a private meeting with senior union figures last week. it is understood no deal was offered in that meeting but there was room for further negotiations. holmes back on form in birmingham  double olympic champion kelly holmes was back to her best as she comfortably won the 1,000m at the norwich union birmingham indoor grand prix.  the 34-year-old, running only her second competitive race of the season, shook off the rust to win in two minutes, 35.39 seconds. but she is still undecided about competing in the european championships in madrid from 4-6 march. "i'll probably be entered and make my mind up at the last minute," she said. "my training hasn't gone as well as expected but i've got two weeks to decide. "i need to take my time and make sure i feel good about what i'm doing. "i felt very good here but with the crowd behind you, you feel like you can do anything." american  was the eventual winner of the men's 60m race which almost ended in farce. three athletes were disqualified for false starting, including britain's mark lewis-francis, who was the first man guilty of coming out of his blocks too quickly. world 100m champion kim collins clinched second spot ahead of world 60m record holder and scott's training partner maurice greene. jason gardener's unbeaten run came to an end as he came fifth and he will need to improve if he is to defend his european title in madrid. "you can't win them all," said gardener afterwards. "and i was very disappointed as i know i'm capable of doing better." russian  was back on record-breaking form in the pole vault at the national indoor arena.  the olympic champion set a new world mark of 4.88m to break her own record - which she set just six days ago - and beat russian rival svetlana feofanova. it was isinbayeva's 11th world record - indoors or out - since july 2003. "i'm so happy and i will do my best to break the 5m barrier soon," the 22-year-old told bbc sport. jamaica's  stormed to a personal best of 7.13 seconds to claim the women's 60m sprint. belgian kim gevaert, who will be one of the favourites for next month's european title, took second while american muna lee was third. there was disappointment for british pair jeanette kwakye and joice maduaka who finished seventh and eighth respectively.  jamaican  stretched her unbeaten record to 25 races as she effortlessly claimed the 200m. the olympic champion set a new indoor personal best of 22.38 seconds - the fastest time in the world this season.  fought off fellow briton tim abeyie to take the men's 200m in a personal best of 20.88.  continued her outstanding start to the season, beating a strong international field, which included two-time olympic 100m hurdles bronze medallist melissa morrison, to claim the women's 60m hurdles. the 25-year-old briton clocked 7.98 seconds while pre-european championships favourite russian irina shevchenko finished down in sixth. ethiopia's  failed in her bid to smash compatriot berhane adere's world 3,000m record but still won the event in emphatic style. the olympic 5,000m champion was inside record pace but dropped off over the final third, finishing in eight minutes, 33.05 seconds - the fourth fastest time ever recorded for the event. britain's jo pavey bravely decided to go with defar as she strode away from the field and took second in a season's best 8:41.43. kenyan  also missed out on the indoor 1500m world record, which hicham el guerrouj has held for the last eight years.  lagat settled for silver behind el guerrouj in athens and was almost four seconds short of the moroccan's world best, clocking 3:35.27 in birmingham. and  was still struggling to find his form after the death of his fiancee this year. the olympic 10,000m champion had comfortably led the men's two mile race after his younger brother tariku had set the pace. but fellow ethiopian  appeared ominously on bekele's shoulder with two laps to go before surging past him at the bell to win in 8:14.28. jamaican  made the most of a blistering start to take the men's 400m title in 45.91 seconds. world indoor champion, alleyne francique, faded badly and finished in fourth while american duo jerry harris and james davis took second and third respectively. swede  showed her class in the long jump as she stole top spot from jade johnson with the very last jump of the competition. the olympic heptathlon gold medallist reached 6.66m to better johnson's mark of 6.52m - her second personal best inside a week. "i was quite surprised because i didn't think i'd end up with second place," said johnson, who wore london's 2012 olympic bid slogan, "back the bid", on her shorts. "but i'm pleased and hopefully i'll get a bit better for the europeans. i really want to win a medal."  won the men's event with a season's best of 7.95m, taking the scalp of world indoor champion savante stringfellow of the usa. 'friends fear' with lost mobiles  people are becoming so dependent on their mobile phones that one in three are concerned that losing their phone would mean they lose their friends.  more than 50% of mobile owners reported they had had their phone stolen or lost in the last three years. more than half (54%) of those asked in a poll for mobile firm intervoice said that they do not have another address book. a fifth rely entirely on mobiles. about 80% of uk adults own at least one mobile, according to official figures. it is estimated that 53% of over 65s own a mobile, according to intervoice, but the figures are higher for those aged between 15 and 34.  most 15 to 24-year-olds (94%), and 25 to 34-year-olds (92%), own at least one. nineteen percent of mobile owners were more concerned about how long it would take to find their contacts' information again if the phone was lost, stolen or replaced.  the survey showed that extent to which people have become reliant on their phones as address book. many mobile owners do not bother to make back-ups of their contact details, and with people changing their phones once a year on average, it becomes a problem. they also are becoming less likely to remember numbers by heart, relying on the mobile phone book instead. "we're a nation of lazy so-and-sos," david noone from intervoice said. "we put the numbers in our phones so we can call a friend at the touch of just one or two buttons and we certainly can't be bothered to write them down in an old fashioned address book. "the mobile phone plays such a key role in modern relationships; take the phone away and the way we manage these relationships falls apart." one in three women, the survey said, thought if they lost their phones, it would mean they would lose touch with people altogether. most (62%) said they had no idea what their partner's number was. mr noone said it should be up to mobile operators to provide back-up services on the network itself, instead of relying on mobile owners to find ways themselves.  generally, information from sim cards can be backed up on physical memory cards, or can be copied onto computers via cables if the phone is a smartphone model with the right software. sim back-up devices can be bought from phone shops for just a few pounds.  but some operators offer customers free web-based back-up services too. orange told the bbc news website that those with orange smartphones could use the my phone syncing service which means back-ups of address books and other data are created online. for non-smartphone users, a memory mate card could be used to back up data on the phone. o2 also offers a free, web-based syncing service which works over gprs and gsm. neither vodafone or t-mobile currently offer a free network service for back-ups, but encourage people to use sim back-up devices. it is thought that about 10,000 phones are lost or stolen every month and 50% of total street crime involves a mobile. mobile phone sales are expected to continue growing over the next year. globally, more than 167 million mobile phones were sold in the third quarter of 2004, 26% more than the previous year, according to analysts. it is predicted that there will be two billion handsets in use worldwide by the end of 2005. circuit city gets takeover offer  circuit city stores, the second-largest electronics retailer in the us, has received a $3.25bn (£1.7bn) takeover offer.  the bid has come from boston-based private investment firm highfields capital management, which already owns 6.7% of circuit city's shares. shares in the retailer were up 19.6% at $17.04 in tuesday morning trading in new york following the announcement. highfield said that it intends to take the virginia-based firm private.  "such a transformation would eliminate the public-company transparency into the company's operating strategy that is uniquely damaging in a highly competitive industry where circuit city is going head-to-head with a tough and entrenched rival," highfield said. one analyst suggested that a bidding battle may now begin for the company. bill armstrong, a retail analyst at cl king & associates, said he expected to see other private investment firms come forward for circuit city. the retailer is debt free with a good cash flow, despite the fact that it is said to be struggling to keep up with market leader best buy and cut-price competition from the likes of wal-mart, said mr armstrong. children vote shrek 2 best film  young uk film fans voted animated hollywood hit shrek 2 best film at the children's bafta awards on sunday.  more than 6,000 children voted in the only category chosen by fans. harry potter and the prisoner of azkaban, runner-up in the poll, was the choice of the bafta experts who named it best feature film. bbc one saturday morning show dick and dom in da bungalow won two awards - best entertainment and best presenters for richard mccourt and dominic wood.  former playschool presenter floella benjamin was awarded the special award for outstanding creative contribution to children's film and television. she first appeared on playschool 25 years ago and was made an obe in 2001 for services to broadcasting. south american-themed cartoon joko! jakamoko! toto! won the honour for pre-school animation and its writer tony collingwood for original writer. debbie isitt won the award for best adapted writer for her work with jacqueline wilson's the illustrated mum, which won the award for best schools drama.  schools' factual (primary) - thinking skills: think about it - hiding places  schools' factual (secondary) - in search of the tartan turban  pre-school live action - balamory  animation - brush head  drama - featherboy  factual - serious desert interactive bafta - king arthur international category - 8 simple rules for dating my teenage daughter opposition grows to house arrests  the conservatives have expressed "serious misgivings" about government plans for keeping uk and foreign terror suspects under house arrest.  michael howard said he would not back the home secretary's plans for "control orders" which include home detention. "i do not believe that anyone should be deprived of their liberty on the say so of a politician," he said. the lib dems also oppose the proposals, but ministers insist they are proportionate to the terror threat.  the government proposed the idea and a range of other new powers after the laws lords said current detentions without trial broke human rights laws. new metropolitan police commissioner sir ian blair has backed the control orders, saying: "i'm sorry. it is a dilemma, but there is only one choice." but mr howard said: "we have serious misgivings about both their effectiveness in protecting life and their consequences for the british way of life."  he argued that people accused of terrorist offences should be brought to trial and be held in prison - not at home - while they await trial. mr howard said he feared "internment without trial creates martyrs" and could be "a very effective recruiting sergeant" for terrorists". his party plans to move an amendment to the serious organised crime and police bill next week that would give a judge responsibility for assessing evidence and ensuring a balanced case is presented to the court. he called on the prime minister to "enter into constructive discussions" with his party to find a "better way forward". controversy over the issue continues after a foreign terror suspect held in the uk without trial or charge since december 2001 was freed from jail.  home secretary charles clarke said there was not enough evidence to keep the egyptian man, known only as c, certified as a terrorist suspect. on monday, the legal team for two algerian suspects being held without trial told a court the men did not want bail if it meant being put under house arrest. most of the terror suspects are detained at belmarsh prison in london. the liberal democrats say they also oppose house arrests and questioned the human rights implications of the measure. home affairs spokesman mark oaten told bbc radio 4's today programme: "it's a matter of principle for us that we can't have a situation where the home secretary is able to impose house detention now on uk nationals as well as foreign nationals."  the lib dems believe the home secretary should allow phone tapping evidence in prosecutions. "we think there could be a role for some form of control order - tagging, surveillance, limitation on use of mobile phones - but not with the home secretary's say so. that must be done with a proper judicial process, a judge involved in making those decisions," said mr oaten. mr clarke has rejected that idea saying intercept evidence is only a small part of the case against terror suspects and could put the lives of intelligence sources at risk. he said prosecutions were the government's first preference and promised the powers would only be used in "serious" cases, with independent scrutiny from judges. record fails to lift lacklustre meet  yelena isinbayeva may have produced another world pole vault record, but her achievement could not hide the fact it was not the best meet we have ever seen in birmingham.  and hey, there are not many meets that go by without the russian breaking a world record.  apparently, isinbayeva has cleared five metres in training and i would just love her to put us out of our misery and have a go at it rather than extending the indoor record by one centimetre at a time. athletics to me is all about pushing the barriers and being the best you can, and i would like to see her have a go at 5m in competition. mind you, every time she breaks the record she gets $30,000 so she can afford to be deliberate about it. world records aside, i thought it was a very encouraging evening's work for kelly holmes. she looked good and was very positive. agnes samaria, who came second, is in very good shape and is in the world's top three 800m runners this season. yes, samaria let kelly get away, but there was no coming back over the last 200m as kelly dominated the race, so beating samaria is a bit of a benchmark for kelly. my gut feeling is that kelly would like to run in the european indoor championships, but she just hasn't convinced herself she is fit enough to do so. on the other hand, i think jason gardener is struggling to come near what is going to be required to win the men's 60m in madrid. he started well in the final but still could not stay with the front-runners. jason has a lot of experience indoors but for some reason he is struggling to maintain his pace through to the finish.  it would have been nice to see what mark lewis-francis could have done in the final, if only he hadn't got himself disqualified. he was blatantly playing the false-start game to his advantage, but it tripped him up and made him look a bit silly. my view is you're meant to go when the gun goes and not before. and if you try to unsettle your rivals by employing the false-start tactic you have to remember not to false start yourself again. having said that, mark is looking in much better shape. but i haven't seen anything from mark or jason yet which suggests france's ronald pognon - who has run 6.45 seconds - will be under threat at the europeans. from a british point of view, sarah claxton's victory in the 60m hurdles was the best thing to come out of the meet.  something else that probably went unnoticed was melanie purkiss winning the women's national 400m race in a new personal best of 52.98 seconds. aaas champion kim wall came second in another lifetime best so we have a very strong 4x400m squad going to the european championships. scotland's lee mcconnell is probably going to run too, so we have a real prospect of a medal. from an international perspective, i thought meseret defar was disappointing in the 3,000m, but i don't think the pace-making was great. canadian heather hennigar set a fast early pace but could not maintain it and if jo pavey had been in last year's shape she would have given defar a real run for her money. she had a go but just could not hang in there. we were also expecting a bit more from bernard lagat in the men's 1500m. but he has only just come over from the usa, so he may not be that sharp and i still think he is in great shape. as for kenenisa bekele, he was well beaten by markos geneti. but we only had half expectations for bekele as he has been struggling this season. it was very hot in the national indoor arena and i felt uncomfortable in the commentary box. i think those conditions affected the distance runners and in fact defar complained to her coach after the race that she could not get her breath properly. telewest to challenge sky plus  cable firm telewest is to offer a personal video recorder (pvr) in a set -top box to challenge sky plus.  sky plus is the market leader in the field of digital video recorders in the uk, with 474,000 subscribers. pvrs record tv programmes to a hard drive, letting viewers pause, and rewind live television and effectively "time shift" the viewing experience. a number of pvrs incorporating freeview digital terrestrial tv are also on the market but their success is limited. telewest's pvr will offer a 160gb hard drive, which has storage for up to 80 hours of programmes. the box has three tuners, which means viewers can record two channels simultaneously while watching a third channel.  sky plus boxes come in two versions - a 20gb version for £99 and a 160gb version for £399. sky also charges a £10 subscription fee to the service, unless viewers have a subscription to one of its premium packages. telewest has yet to reveal pricing for the new box or if it will be charging a subscription fee for the service.  eric tveter, president and chief operating officer at telewest broadband, said: "we will make our pvr set-top box available later this year, putting a stop to missed soaps, interrupted films and arguments over which programmes to record." pvrs and recordable dvd players are set to replace video recorders as the standard method of recording and saving favourite tv programmes. last year, high street retailer dixons said it was going to stop selling vhs machines in favour of pvrs and recordable dvd machines. sky has said it aims to have 25% of its subscribers using sky plus by 2010 - it is predicting 10 million total subscribers by that date. it currently has 7.4 million subscribers, while telewest provides digital cable to 1.7 million customers. japan turns to beer alternatives  japanese brewers are increasingly making money from beer-flavoured drinks rather than beer itself  beer and spirits are heavily taxed in japan, driving breweries to search for alternatives. japan's long economic downturn helped drive the trend, as drinkers looked for cheaper opportunities to drown their sorrows. now, according to asahi breweries, the market for so-called "beer-like" drinks is set to grow 84% this year.  asahi is predicting profits to rise 50% in 2005 as it launches a drink based on soybean peptides rather than malt. the chosen name, "shinnama" or "new draft", disguises its non-beer nature. but despite a record profit in 2004 of 30.6bn yen ($291m; £154m), up 31.8% on the previous year, asahi is coming late to the market. key rival sapporo is already well-established with the beer-flavoured "draft one". suntory, meanwhile, is doing well with "super blue", which combines happoshu - an existing low-cost beer alternative made with malt and seawater - and shochu, a distilled alcohol derived from sweet potatoes or barley. happoshu has been a mainstay of brewery profits for years, taking over from beer thanks to its low tax and therefore low cost. kirin, the fourth big name, is launching its own "third-type" drink in april. uk debut for kevin spacey movie  hollywood stars kevin spacey and kate bosworth attended the british premiere of new film, beyond the sea, in london's leicester square on thursday.  spacey, 45, wrote, directed and starred in the film, inspired by the life of 1950s croooner bobby darin. "this is my tribute to someone i think was a remarkable talent," said spacey, who, as darin, sings all 18 songs on the film soundtrack. bosworth, 21, plays darin's wife - real life hollywood actress sandra dee. "i knew absolutely nothing about bobby darin before this film, but now i'm a huge fan," said bosworth, who attended the premiere with british boyfriend orlando bloom.  "there is darkness and tragedy in the story, and it was a dream for me to land this part." actress sandra dee continues to live in los angeles as a virtual recluse, but has given her approval to the biopic.  "she called me last week and said she loved it," said spacey, who was joined at the premiere by members of the boy band westlife. spacey, a double oscar-winner, has long been fascinated by the story of singer bobby darin. the voice behind mack the knife, dream lover and beyond the sea, fought childhood illness to become one the biggest stars of the 1950s, but died aged 37 from the heart condition that had troubled him all his life. "bobby darin was one of the greatest entertainers the world has ever known, and yet, because he died young, he's been kind of forgotten," said spacey at the premiere. "making this film was the most fun i've ever had in my entire life." the movie also stars british actors bob hoskins and brenda blethyn, as darin's mother. visa decision 'every 11 minutes'  visa processing staff are sometimes expected to rule on an application every 11 minutes, mps have said.  pressure was placed on staff to be efficient, rather than to do a thorough examination of an application, the public accounts committee found. every officer had an annual target of 8,000 applications - equivalent to 40 a day or one every 11 minutes. mps want research into whether uk visa holders leave at the end of their stays, or vanish into the black market. committee chairman edward leigh said: "there is a worrying tension between quick processing and proper control over the visas issued. "entry clearance staff are expected to deal with a visa application in about 11 minutes which is surely too little time to look closely at the supporting documents. "  the committee's report also discussed the romanian and bulgarian visas scandal which led to the resignation of immigration minister beverley hughes last year. committee members said the home office had been wrong to dismiss concerns from visa staff abroad who feared the system was being abused. investigations carried out in the wake of ms hughes' resignation found more than 7,000 people had entered the uk under the business visa scheme for romanian and bulgarian "entrepreneurs". mr leigh said the home office should now consider removing those who had not set up a valid business. a home office spokesman said the system had been toughened and tightened since the investigation. he added "that the traditional system of a dual decision making process for all pre-entry applications will be replaced by a single pre-entry check at post, which will be simpler and more robust against abuse than the current system". tomlinson stays focused on europe  long jumper chris tomlinson has cut his schedule to ensure he is fully fit for the european indoor championships.  the 23-year-old has a minor injury and has pulled out of international meets in madrid and lievin this week as well as warm-weather training in lanzarote. "it's nothing serious," said his coach peter stanley. "he strained a muscle in his abdomen at the birmingham meeting but is back in full training." sprinter mark lewis-francis will also not compete in madrid on thursday. the birmingham athlete, who clocked a season's best of 6.61 seconds over 60m in birmingham last week, also prefers to focus his attentions on next month's european indoor championships.  lewis-francis, who was runner-up to british team-mate jason gardener at the europeans three years ago, will continue his training at home. meanwhile, tomlinson is still searching for this first major medal and this season he has shown he could be in the sort of form to grab a spot on the podium in madrid. the middlesbrough athlete jumped a season's best of 7.95m at the birmingham grand prix - good enough to push world indoor champion savante stringfellow into second. games enter the classroom  video games could soon be transplanted from their natural habitat to the more academic atmosphere of the classroom.  with violent titles continuing to top the charts, gaming and learning have not always sat well together but the tide could be beginning to turn. recent research by the london institute of education concluded that games have a valid place in the classroom. "games teach life skills such as decision making, problem solving," said martin owen, at futurelab. mr owen said games could also help children make quick assessments of situations and learning by trial and error.  futurelab is a non-profit organisation looking at ways of using technology for innovative learning. most game firms are too busy turning a profit in the lucrative commercial market to consider developing games for use in schools but liverpool-based games firm lateral visions saw a gap in the market. "learning games were somewhat old-fashioned and we didn't see anyone else doing what we wanted to do," said dr carl gavin, managing director of lateral visions. the company set out to write something that had all the look and feel of a commercial game but with an educational and learning element. the result is racing academy, a massively multiplayer car racing game, which requires not only a thirst for speed but a working knowledge of physics and engineering as well.  it is being used by futurelab to test the viability of using gaming in the classroom. "we are keen to find out whether alongside learning a game, we can also learn something that the rest of the world can understand as being educational," said mr owen. players will have to understand how a car works in order to win races and the knowledge of physics and engineering that they gather along the way will be done in a way that no text book can teach. the game requires users to build and maintain their vehicles and to monitor and analyse performance using data from a variety of outputs, before and after racing. teamwork is essential and a chat area allows students to exchange information and data, work collaboratively and review their own performances. this fusion of chatrooms and gaming is of special interest to futurelab as it is through talking to others that much of the learning can be achieved, thinks mr owen.  the game has been trialled in two secondary schools in bristol and feedback from students has been positive. "pupils used the statistics to work out the best way to build their cars and the online message board to share ideas and support each other," said ben williamson, a researcher at futurelab charged with testing the game in real schools. dr gavin thinks the game satisfies both teachers' need for learning outcomes and the children's desire to rise to a challenge. "games in the classroom need to support the teacher. it is not about giving children free rein to play game but recognising that games attract attention and offer a challenge," he said. professor angela macfarlane, based at bristol university, has spent several years researching how games can be incorporated into classrooms.  use of games in schools has been patchy she found, with sim city proving the most popular. traditionally schools have eschewed mainstream games in favour of used so-called edu-tainment software in a belief that such packages help to make learning fun, she found in her research. "it is perhaps in a compromise between edutainment and mainstream games that the greatest potential for classroom useable games lies," she wrote in a paper entitled games and learning. 'lite' versions of existing games could be the way forward and would overcome one of the biggest hurdles - persuading developers to write for the educational market. this would appeal to developers because of the low costs involved in adapting them as well as offering a new opportunity for marketing. already there are games on the market, such as civilisation and age of empire, that have educational elements said mr owen. "even in grand theft auto it is not just the violence that engages people," he said. it could be some time until that particular game makes it into the classroom though. s korean consumers spending again  south korea looks set to sustain its revival thanks to renewed private consumption, its central bank says.  the country's economy has suffered from an overhang of personal debt after its consumers' credit card spending spree. card use fell sharply last year, but is now picking up again with a rise in spending of 14.8% year-on-year. "the economy is now heading upward rather than downward," said central bank governor park seung. "the worst seems to have passed." mr park's statement came as the bank decided to keep interest rates at an all-time low of 3.25%. it had cut rates in november to help revive the economy, but rising inflation - reaching 0.7% month-on-month in january - has stopped it from cutting further. economic growth in 2004 was about 4.7%, with the central bank predicting 4% growth this year. other indicators are also suggesting that the country is inching back towards economic health. exports - traditionally the driver for expansion in asian economies - grew slower in january than at any time in 17 months. but domestic demand seems to be taking up the slack. consumer confidence has bounced back from a four-year low in january, and retail sales were up 2.1% in december. credit card debt is falling, with only one in 13 of the 48 million cards now in default - down from one in eight at the end of 2003. one of its biggest card issuers, lg card, was rescued from collapse in december, having almost imploded under the weight of its customers' bad debts. the government last year tightened the rules for card lending to keep the card glut under control. box office blow for alexander  director oliver stone's historical epic alexander has failed in its bid to conquer the box office, entering the us film charts at number six.  the swords and sandals blockbuster, rumoured to have cost more than $150m (£79m) to make, earned just $13.5 (£7m) over three days at the us box office. due to the thanksgiving holiday, the film opened on wednesday, bringing its total takings to $21.6m (£11.4m). top of the box office for a second week was action movie national treasure. the family adventure, starring nicolas cage, took $33.1m (£17.m), ahead of animated comedy the incredibles - now in its fourth week in the charts - which took $24.1m (£12.7m).  last week oliver stone's film met with scathing reviews from us critics. the film stars irish actor colin farrell as one of history's most celebrated leaders - a relentless and arrogant warrior who conquered much of the known world by the age of 25. in particular, its portrayal of alexander as a bisexual has met with a hostile reception and the threat of legal action from greek lawyers. "though the battles have the blood-and-sinew bravado you expect from oliver stone, this three-hour buttnumbathon is hamstrung by a hectoring grandiosity," wrote one reviewer in rolling stone magazine. others poured scorn on farrell's bleached hair and angelina jolie's unwieldy accent, which variety called "a combination of mata hari and count dracula" . but novelist gore vidal defended the film, saying it was "barrier-breaking" for its frank depiction of bisexuality.  in sweden last thursday, to pick up a lifetime achievement award at the stockholm international film festival, stone expressed the hope that alexander might be better appreciated in europe. "one of the reasons i am being honoured here is europeans tend to see me a little differently than they do in the us," said the director behind jfk, platoon and born on the fourth of july. he added alexander "was not an easy movie, but then i've never made easy movies". 'no more concessions' on terror  charles clarke says he has "no desire" to offer more concessions on his controversial anti-terror plans to get them on to the statute book.  mps voted in favour of the prevention of terrorism bill after mr clarke agreed to key changes - but labour's majority was reduced to 14. the bill now faces opposition from peers angry at house arrest proposals. lord strathclyde, tory leader in the lords, said ministers should expect it to be "substantially re-written".  the bill proposes "control orders", which as well as house arrest could impose curfews, tagging or bans on telephone and internet use. they would replace current powers to detain foreign terror suspects without trial, which the law lords have ruled against.  on monday, mps voted 272-219 in favour of the bill after key concessions from mr clarke. the government earlier saw its 161-strong majority cut to just 14 as a cross-party amendment was narrowly rejected by the commons despite the support of 62 labour rebels. mr clarke won over critics by announcing he would introduce an amendment in the lords to ensure the most controversial control order, amounting to house arrest, would be imposed by judges and not politicians. lord strathclyde warned ministers that they should "prepare themselves for substantial rewriting of various aspects of the bill". "they should consider far more seriously the use of intercept evidence in any trial and i think they should drop the most objectionable proposals, which are for house arrest."  but mr clarke told bbc radio 4's today programme he believed the changes he had made to the bill to win over critics in the commons should be sufficient to satisfy colleagues in the lords. "no bill goes through parliament without detailed consideration being made, but i believe that what i announced yesterday will be sufficient to secure the agreement of the house of lords," he said.  "i have no desire to make further so-called concessions on the bill." mr clarke's proposed amendment will be debated by the lords on tuesday without having been considered by mps. the debate is unlikely to result in a vote. speaking after the commons debate, shadow home secretary david davies said the bill had been "clearly very badly drawn-up" and that the government was trying to rush it through too quickly. he said it would be possible to "rescue" the government and make the law "tolerable" by amending it in the lords. "the scope for miscarriages of justice is enormous," he told bbc news.  mark oaten, for the liberal democrats, said monday night's vote showed the government had "lost the confidence of all sides of the house". he said: "they need to rethink the bill, and extend the power of a judge to decide on all control orders, build safeguards on evidence and create charges against suspects. "unless there is a major movement, this bill is doomed to fail."  bbc news political editor andrew marr said: "i think that this is a bill in deep trouble. it's been unravelling in the house of commons - it may unravel further." the government wants the new bill to pass into law by 14 march, when the current powers expire. running around the olympics  it was back to official duties last week in my role as an ambassador to london's 2012 olympic bid. but i still managed to do all my marathon training.  all the sporting people on the capital's bid team think i'm mad to be taking part in the london marathon. the bid chairman, lord coe, admitted he would never dream of running a marathon, even though he was an olympic middle-distance runner.  kelly holmes, former hurdler alan pascoe and former sprinter frankie fredericks - who is now an ioc member - all wanted to know why anyone would want to run that far. you'd have thought all these athletes, who have been running for most of their lives, wouldn't think it would be that bad. but the only person who was positive about my intentions was tanni grey thompson, who has won the london marathon wheelchair race six times. even though it was a very busy week entertaining the international olympic committee's (ioc) evaluation commission, i actually found my running schedule easier to follow. when i'm at home, i get distracted by all sorts of things but for the five days i was in london, i was in a pressurised situation, but i found it easy to relax by running.  on wednesday, the presentations to the ioc team did not finish until the early evening, so i just managed to squeeze in a 45-minute run. we had an early start on thursday because we had to visit all the olympic sites around london, that was pretty shattering, but when we got back to the hotel, i got back on the treadmill. on friday evening i went along to the special dinner at buckingham palace which was a nice occasion. i never feel guilty about eating, especially when i'm exercising. and because it was a rest day i didn't have to feel bad about missing my training either. anyway, i managed to do another quick run on saturday ahead of the final ioc presentations, before heading home for my daughter's birthday.  when i was in london i did all of my runs on the treadmill, which isn't the same as exercising outdoors. one of the ioc's technical staff from australia ran alongside me one day. we talked about the sydney olympics and that made the time go past more quickly. i do find it quite comfortable running in the gym because there is more cushioning. but when you're gearing up to running on the road you need your body to get used to that jarring feeling when your feet hit the pavement. it was good to get out on the road for my long run on sunday. after the week i'd had i was a bit concerned i wouldn't be able to complete it. but i coped with it very well and, even though it was bitterly cold, i put in 15-and-a-half miles - only another 11 to go then.  - this year steve will donate all the proceeds from his london marathon efforts to victims of the tsunami.steve will be writing a regular column on the ups and downs of his marathon training for the bbc sport website.he will be raising money through the steve redgrave trust which supports the association of children's hospices, the children with leukaemia charity, and the trust's own project which aims to provide inner-city schools with rowing equipment. gadget growth fuels eco concerns  technology firms and gadget lovers are being urged to think more about the environment when buying and disposing of the latest hi-tech products.  at the consumer electronics show in las vegas earlier this month, several hi-tech firms were recognised for their strategies to help the environment. ebay also announced the rethink project bringing together intel, apple, and ibm among others to promote recycling. the us consumer electronics market is set to grow by over 11% in 2005. but more awareness is needed about how and where old gadgets can be recycled as well as how to be more energy efficient, said the us environmental protection agency (epa). of particular growing concern is how much energy it takes to recharge portable devices, one of the fastest growing markets in technology. the consumer electronics association (cea) has predicted that shipments of consumer technologies in 2005 will reach more than $125.73 billion (nearly £68 billion).  ebay's initiative pulls together major technology firms, environment groups, government agencies and ebay users to give information about what to do with old computers and where to send them. the online auction house thinks that its already-established community of loyal users could be influential. "we really became aware of the e-waste issue and we saw that our 125 million users can be a powerful force for good," ebay's david stern told the bbc news website.  "we saw the opportunity to meet the additional demand we have on the site for used computers and saw the opportunity too to good some good for the environment." but it is not just computers that cause a problem for the environment. teenagers get a new mobile every 11 months, adults every 18 months and a 15 million handsets are replaced in total each year. yet, only 15% are actually recycled. this year, a predicted two billion people worldwide will own a mobile, according to a deloitte report. schemes in the us, like ripmobile, could help in targeting younger generations with recycling messages. the initiative, which was also launched at ces, rewards 10 to 28-year-olds for returning unused phones. "this system allows for the transformation of a drawer full of unused mobile phones into anything from music to clothes to electronics or games," said seth heine from ripmobile.  one group of students collected 1,000 mobiles for recycling in just three months. mr heine told the bbc news website that what was important was to raise awareness amongst the young so that recycling becomes "learned behaviour". europe is undoubtedly more advanced than the us in terms of recycling awareness and robust "end of life" programmes, although there is a tide change happening in the rest of the world too. intel showcased some its motherboards and chips at ces which are entirely lead free.  "there is more and more awareness on the consumer side, but the whole industry is moving towards being lead free," intel's allen wilson told the bbc news website. "there is still low-level awareness right now, but it is on the rise - the highest level of awareness is in europe." a european union (eu) directive, weee (waste electronic and electrical equipment), comes into effect in august. it puts the responsibility on electrical manufacturers to recycle items that are returned to them. but developments are also being made to design better technologies which are more energy efficient and which do not contain harmful substances. elements like chromium, lead, and cadmium - common in consumer electronics goods - will be prohibited in all products in the eu by 2006.  but it is not just about recycling either. the predicted huge growth in the gadget market means the amount of energy used to power them up is on the rise too. the biggest culprit, according to the epa, is the innocuous power adaptor, nicknamed "energy vampires". they provide vital juice for billions of mobile phones, pdas (personal digital assistants), digital cameras, camcorders, and digital music players.  although there is a focus on developing efficient and improved circuits in the devices themselves, the technologies inside rechargers are still outdated and so eat up more energy than is needed to power a gadget. on 1 january, new efficiency standards for external power supplies came into effect as part of the european commission code of conduct. but at ces, the epa also unveiled new guidelines for its latest energy star initiative which targets external power adapters. these map out the framework for developing better adaptors that can be labelled with an energy star logo, meaning they are about 35% more efficient. the initiative is a global effort and more manufacturers' adaptors are being brought on board. most are made in china. about two billion are shipped global every year, and about three billion are in use in the us alone. the epa is already working with several companies which make more than 22% of power supplies on the market. "we are increasingly finding companies that not only want to provide neat, hi-tech devices, but also bundle with it a hi-tech, efficient power supply," the epa's andrew fanara said. initiatives like this are critical; if power adaptors continue to be made and used as they are now, consumer electronics and other small appliances will be responsible for more than 40% of electricity used in us homes, said the epa. german growth goes into reverse  germany's economy shrank 0.2% in the last three months of 2004, upsetting hopes of a sustained recovery.  the figures confounded hopes of a 0.2% expansion in the fourth quarter in europe's biggest economy. the federal statistics office said growth for the whole of 2004 was 1.6%, after a year of contraction in 2003, down from an earlier estimate of 1.7%. it said growth in the third quarter had been zero, putting the economy at a standstill from july onward. germany has been reliant on exports to get its economy back on track, as unemployment of more than five million and impending cuts to welfare mean german consumers have kept their money to themselves. major companies including volkswagen, daimlerchrysler and siemens have spent much of 2004 in tough talks with unions about trimming jobs and costs. according to the statistics office, destatis, rising exports were outweighed in the fourth quarter by the continuing weakness of domestic demand.  but the relentless rise in the value of the euro last year has also hit the competitiveness of german products overseas. the effect has been to depress prospects for the 12-nation eurozone as a whole, as well as germany. eurozone interest rates are at 2%, but senior officials at the rate-setting european central bank are beginning to talk about the threat of inflation, prompting fears that interest rates may rise. the ecb's mandate is to fight rising prices by boosting interest rates - and that could further threaten germany's hopes of recovery. ray dvd beats box office takings  oscar-nominated film biopic ray has surpassed its us box office takings with a combined tally of $80m (£43m) from dvd and video sales and rentals.  ray's success on dvd outstripped its $74m (£40m) us box office total, earning more than $40m (£22m) on the first day of the dvd's release alone. ray has been nominated in six oscar categories including best film and best actor for jamie foxx. the film recounts the life of blues singer ray charles, who died in 2004. in its first week on home entertainment release the film was the number one selling dvd, with the limited edition version coming in at number 11. sony horror film the grudge, starring michelle gellar, was the us' second best-selling dvd, with jennifer lopez and richard gere's romantic comedy shall we dance? at number three. foxx's critically acclaimed performance as ray has already earned him a screen actors guild award for best actor, as well as a prestigious golden globe. ray director taylor hackford, responsible for the classic 1982 film an officer and a gentleman, has also received an oscar nomination in the best director category. the film's three other oscar nominations are for costume, film editing and sound mixing. no to royal succession shake-up  a labour peer has withdrawn proposals to give female members of the royal family the same rights as males.  the legislation would have ended the right of male heirs with older sisters to succeed to the crown. it would also have torn up ancient legislation banning heirs to the throne marrying roman catholics. but the government refused to back lord dubs' succession to the crown bill, saying it was too complex and raised too many constitutional issues.  the lord chancellor, lord falconer, agreed the 1701 act of settlement, which governs the succession, was discriminatory but added that "for all practical purposes its effects are limited".  the changes proposed by lord dubs were a "complex and controversial undertaking raising major constitutional issues", he said. lord falconer said there were 22 members of the royal family in the line of succession after the prince of wales - all of who were eligible to succeed and had been unaffected by the act. "it is not a simple matter that can be tinkered with lightly. while we wish to remove all forms of discrimination... this isn't the proper form," he added.  he did not rule out change in the future but said if lord dubs' private member's bill was passed by peers, he would urge mps to oppose it in the commons. lord dubs agreed to withdraw his bill after its second reading in the house of lords, but urged the government to think again at a later stage. "we cannot forever say we don't want to change things because it is too difficult," he told peers. during the debate, the labour peer and former minister said: "the monarchy should symbolise the values of this country. "what we don't want is a situation where the values of the country have moved on and the monarchy is centuries behind the times. "we are surely all opposed to discrimination on the grounds of gender and we are surely also opposed to discrimination against catholics." but opponents of the bill, including tory lord campbell of alloway and the bishop of winchester, the rt rev michael scott-joynt, said it would separate the state from both the church of england and the christian faith. such a "secular" state would be markedly "less tolerant", rt rev scott-joynt argued. johnson uncertain about euro bid  jade johnson is undecided about whether to contest next month's european indoor championships in madrid despite winning the aaas long jump title on saturday.  the 24-year-old delivered a personal best of 6.50m to win the european trials but had to wait until her final jump after four failures. "i don't want to go if i am not going to get a medal," said johnson. "i will have to see how i am jumping in the next competition and i'll have to have a conversation with my coach." johnson, who finished seventh in last year's olympic games, has not competed indoors since 2000. and the commonwealth and european silver medallist believes her lack of experience in the early part of the season has knocked her confidence. "it's the stress," said johnson. "i am not used to feeling this, this early. i am just used to training. "but if i'm doing this kind of thing, then i will have to see how it goes." johnson next competes in the high-class birmingham grand prix on 18 february. 'evil twin' fear for wireless net  people using wireless high-speed net (wi-fi) are being warned about fake hotspots, or access points.  the latest threat, nicknamed evil twins, pose as real hotspots but are actually unauthorised base stations, say cranfield university experts. once logged onto an evil twin, sensitive data can be intercepted. wi-fi is becoming popular as more devices come with wireless capability. london leads the global wi-fi hotspots league, with more than 1,000. the number of hotspots is expected to reach 200,000 by 2008, according to analysts. "users need to be wary of using their wi-fi enabled laptops or other portable devices in order to conduct financial transactions or anything that is of a sensitive or personal nature," said professor brian collins, head of information systems at cranfield university.  "users can also protect themselves by ensuring that their wi-fi device has its security measures activated," he added. bt openzone, which operates a vast proportion of public hotspots in the uk, told the bbc news website that it made every effort to make its wi-fi secure. "naturally, people may have security concerns," said chris clark, chief executive for bt's wireless broadband.  "but wi-fi networks are no more or less vulnerable than any other means of accessing the internet, like broadband or dial-up." he said bt openzone, as well as others, have sophisticated encryption from the start of the login process to the service at a hotspot. "this means that users' personal information and data, logon usernames and passwords are protected and secure," said mr clark.  in the vast majority of cases, base stations straight out of the box from the manufacturers are automatically set up with the least secure mode possible, said dr nobles. cybercriminals who try to glean personal information using the scam, jam connections to a legitimate base station by sending a stronger signal near to the wireless client. anyone with the right gear can find a real hotspot and substitute it with an evil twin. "cybercriminals don't have to be that clever to carry out such an attack," said dr phil nobles, a wireless net and cybercrime expert at cranfield. "because wireless networks are based on radio signals they can be easily detected by unauthorised users tuning into the same frequency."  although wi-fi is increasing in popularity as more people want to use high-speed net on the move, there have been fears over how secure it is. some companies have been reluctant to use them in large numbers because of fears about security. a wireless network that is not protected can provide a backdoor into a company's computer system. public wi-fi hotspots offered by companies like bt openzone and the cloud, are accessible after users sign up and pay for use. but many home and company wi-fi networks are left unprotected and can be "sniffed out" and hi-jacked by anyone with the correct equipment. "bt advises that customers should change all default settings, make sure that their security settings on all equipment are configured correctly," said mr clark. "we also advocate the use of personal firewalls to ensure that only authorised users can have access and that data cannot be intercepted." dr nobles is due to speak about wireless cybercrime at the science museum's dana centre in london on thursday. turkey-iran mobile deal 'at risk'  turkey's investment in iran's mobile industry looks set to be scrapped after its biggest mobile firm saw its investment there slashed by mps.  iran's parliament voted by a large majority to cut turkcell's stake in a new mobile network from 70% to 49%. the move, which was justified on national security grounds, follows an earlier vote by mps to give themselves a veto over foreign investments. turkcell said the decision "increases the risks" attached to the project. although the company's statement said it would continue to monitor developments, observers said they thought turkcell was set to pull out of the $3bn deal. "the possibility of carrying out this project is next to zero," said atinc ozkan, analyst at finans investment in istanbul. if turkcell does back out, mtn - the south african firm which lost out in the original tender - may well be back in the running. the company has said it is prepared to accept a minority stake if iran will award it the mobile deal.  turkcell's mobile deal is the second turkish investment in iran to run into trouble. turkish-austrian consortium tav was chosen to build and run tehran's new imam khomeini international airport - but the army closed it just hours after it opened in may 2004. in both cases, the justification has been national security, amid allegations that the turkish firms are too close to israel. the hardline posture taken by parliament, which is dominated by religious conservatives, could yet impact other inward investments. ocean's twelve raids box office  ocean's twelve, the crime caper sequel starring george clooney, brad pitt and julia roberts, has gone straight to number one in the us box office chart.  it took $40.8m (£21m) in weekend ticket sales, according to studio estimates. the sequel follows the master criminals as they try to pull off three major heists across europe. it knocked last week's number one, national treasure, into third place. wesley snipes' blade: trinity was in second, taking $16.1m (£8.4m). rounding out the top five was animated fable the polar express, starring tom hanks, and festive comedy christmas with the kranks.  ocean's twelve box office triumph marks the fourth-biggest opening for a december release in the us, after the three films in the lord of the rings trilogy. the sequel narrowly beat its 2001 predecessor, ocean's eleven which took $38.1m (£19.8m) on its opening weekend and $184m (£95.8m) in total. a remake of the 1960s film, starring frank sinatra and the rat pack, ocean's eleven was directed by oscar-winning director steven soderbergh. soderbergh returns to direct the hit sequel which reunites clooney, pitt and roberts with matt damon, andy garcia and elliott gould. catherine zeta-jones joins the all-star cast. "it's just a fun, good holiday movie," said dan fellman, president of distribution at warner bros. however, us critics were less complimentary about the $110m (£57.2m) project, with the los angeles times labelling it a "dispiriting vanity project". a milder review in the new york times dubbed the sequel "unabashedly trivial". bnp leader nick griffin arrested  the leader of the british national party has been arrested as part of a police inquiry following the screening of a bbc documentary.  a party spokesman said nick griffin was arrested on tuesday morning on suspicion of incitement to commit racial hatred. west yorkshire police confirmed they had arrested a 45-year-old man from outside their area. bnp founding chairman john tyndall was arrested on sunday on the same charge.  in july, the bbc documentary secret agent featured covertly-filmed footage of bnp activists. mr griffin is the twelfth man to be arrested following the documentary. nine men from west yorkshire and another man from leicester have been arrested and freed on bail. seven of the men had been held variously in connection with suspected racially aggravated public order offences, conspiracy to commit criminal damage and possession of a firearm. two men, both from keighley, were arrested in september on suspicion of conspiracy to commit criminal damage. a 24-year-old man from leicester was detained on monday on suspicion of incitement to commit racial hatred. a bnp spokesperson said mr tyndall, from brighton, was arrested following a speech he made in burnley, lancashire, and was released on police bail. pavey focuses on indoor success  jo pavey will miss january's view from great edinburgh international cross country to focus on preparing for the european indoor championships in march.  the 31-year-old was third behind hayley yelling and justyna bak in last week's european cross country championships but she prefers to race on the track. "it was great winning bronze but i'm wary of injuries and must concentrate on the indoor season," she said. "because of previous injuries i don't even run up hills in training." pavey, who came fifth in the 5,000m at the athens olympics, helped the british cross country team win the team silver medal in heringsdorf last week. she is likely to start her 3,000m season with a race in either boston or stuttgart at the end of january. china 'to overtake us net use'  the chinese net-using population looks set to exceed that of the us in less than three years, says a report.  china's net users number 100m but this represents less than 8% of the country's 1.3 billion people. market analysts panlogic predicts that net users in china will exceed the 137 million us users of the net by 2008. the report says that the country's culture will mean that chinese people will use the net for very different ends than in many other nations.  already net use in china has a very different character than in many western nations, said william makower, chief executive of panlogic. in many western nations desktop computers that can access the net are hard to escape at work. by contrast in china workplace machines are relatively rare. this, combined with the relatively high cost of pcs in china and the time it takes to get phone lines installed, helps to explains the huge number of net cafes in china. only 36% of chinese homes have telephones according to reports. "net usage tends to happen in the evening," said mr makower, "they get access only when they go home and go off to the internet caf&#233;." "its fundamentally different usage to what we have here," he said.  net use in china was still very much an urban phenomenon with most users living on the country's eastern seaboard or in its three biggest cities. the net is key to helping chinese people keep in touch with friends, said mr makower. many people use it in preference to the phone or arrange to meet up with friends at net cafes. what people can do on the net is also limited by aspects of chinese life. for instance, said mr makower, credit cards are rare in china partly because of fears people have about getting in to debt. "the most popular way to pay is cash-on-delivery," he said, "and that's quite a brake to the development of e-commerce." the arrival of foreign banks in china, due in 2006, could mean greater use of credit cards but for the moment they are rare, said mr makower. but if chinese people are not spending cash online they are interested in the news they can get via the net and the view it gives them on western ways of living. "a large part of the attraction of the internet is that it goes below the radar," he said. "generally it's more difficult for the government to be able to control it." "its real value is as an open window onto what's happening elsewhere in the world," he said. government restrictions on how much advertising can appear on television means that the net is a source of many commercial messages chinese people would not see anywhere else. familiarity with the net also has a certain social cachet. "it's a sign of them having made it that they can use the internet and navigate around it," said mr makower. eu ministers to mull jet fuel tax  european union finance ministers are meeting on thursday in brussels, where they are to discuss a controversial jet fuel tax.  a levy on jet fuel has been suggested as a way to raise funds to finance aid for the world's poorest nations. airlines and aviation bodies have reacted strongly against the plans, saying they would hurt companies at a time when earnings are under pressure. the eu said a tax would only be passed after full consultation with airlines. it was keen to point out earlier this week that any new tax on jet fuel should not hurt the "competitiveness of the airlines". ministers will also be discussing reforms to regulations governing european public spending.  global leaders have focused attention on poverty reduction and development at recent meetings of the g7 group and world economic forum. the world's richest countries have said they want to boost the amount of aid they give to 0.7% of their annual gross national income by 2015. many eu ministers are thought to support the plan to tax jet fuel - tabled by france and germany following the recent g7 meeting. at present, the fuel used by airlines enjoys either a very low tax rate or is untaxed in eu member states. indie film nominations announced  mike leigh's award-winning abortion drama vera drake has scooped seven nominations at this year's british independent film awards.  but the venice winner faces stiff competition from shane meadows' critically acclaimed dead man's shoes, which received eight nominations. also in the running for a clutch of awards are my summer of love and the stalker drama enduring love. the winners will be announced at a ceremony in london on 30 november. the winners of the awards will be chosen by a jury chaired by cold mountain director anthony minghella and including actresses cate blanchett and helena bonham-carter.  the awards, which recognise independent film-making in britain, were established seven years ago. "this year's nominees reflect the growing strength and diversity of british independent filmmaking," said bifa founder and director elliot grove. commenting on the diversity of the nominated films, he added: "our selection committee had a harder time than ever narrowing down the field."  joining vera drake and dead man's shoes in the running for best film are my summer of love, climbing documentary touching the void and zombie comedy shaun of the dead. geoffrey rush wins a best actor nomination for his role as peter sellers in the recent biopic the life & death of peter sellers.  the australian star faces competition from daniel craig (enduring love), phil davis (vera drake), ian hart (blind fight) and dead man's shoes' star paddy considine. considine is also nominated for a best supporting actor award for my summer of love. a rare us nominee, scarlett johansson, is among this year's best actress contenders for her role in girl with a pearl earring.  fellow nominees include imelda staunton (vera drake), natalie press (my summer of love), anne reid (the mother) and eva birthistle (ae fond kiss... ). shane meadows and kevin mcdonald, both former winners of the douglas hickox award (for best directorial debut) won best director nominations. seasoned film-makers roger michell, mike leigh and pavel pavlikowsky challenge them to the award. harry potter author jk rowling will receive a special award for her contribution to the industry. boris opposes mayor apology  ken livingstone should "stick to his guns" and not apologise for his "nazi" comment to a jewish reporter, tory mp boris johnson has insisted.  mr johnson also claimed tony blair's intervention in the row was "an attempt to reassure jewish voters". london mayor mr livingstone says he is "standing by" his remarks which likened an evening standard journalist to a "concentration camp guard". but the prime minister says it is time for mr livingstone to say sorry.  labour's mr livingstone has said his comments may have been offensive but were not racist, and said earlier this week he would not apologise even if mr blair asked. later the prime minister said: "a lot of us in politics get angry with journalists from time to time, but in the circumstances, and to the journalist because he was a jewish journalist, yes, he should apologise."  however, mr johnson, who was forced to apologise last year for an article in the magazine he edits about liverpudlians grieving over the death of british hostage ken bigley, said mr blair "should butt out of" the row. "i don't see why the prime minister has to get involved in this," the spectator editor told bbc radio 4's today programme. "it's a dispute between ken livingstone and a reporter on the evening standard." mr johnson, mp for henley-on-thames, oxfordshire, said he suspected labour was now trying to reassure jewish voters "because of this curious way in which labour seems to be trying to curry favour with disillusioned muslim voters who may be disillusioned about the war".  "ken doesn't think he's got anything to say sorry for and if that's really his feeling, then i think that he should stick to his guns," he said. mr johnson apologised last october for perpetuating an "outdated stereotype" of liverpool in the leader article on the death of mr bigley. the article in the magazine suggested grieving liverpudlians were wallowing in their victim status. it also attributed blame to drunken liverpool football fans for the 1989 hillsborough disaster in which 96 died. mr johnson told today: "it's perfectly true that i got into the grovelling game myself and when i apologised there were some things that i felt i ought to say sorry for ... there were also other things i didn't think i should apologise for," he said. "but here's old ken - he's been crass, he's been insensitive and thuggish and brutal in his language - but i don't think actually if you read what he said, although it was extraordinary and rude, i don't think he was actually anti-semitic." gardener wins double in glasgow  britain's jason gardener enjoyed a double 60m success in glasgow in his first competitive outing since he won 100m relay gold at the athens olympics.  gardener cruised home ahead of scot nick smith to win the invitational race at the norwich union international. he then recovered from a poor start in the second race to beat swede daniel persson and italy's luca verdecchia. his times of 6.61 and 6.62 seconds were well short of american maurice greene's 60m world record of 6.39secs from 1998. "it's a very hard record to break, but i believe i've trained very well," said the world indoor champion, who hopes to get closer to the mark this season. "it was important to come out and make sure i got maximum points. my last race was the olympic final and there was a lot of expectation. "this was just what i needed to sharpen up and get some race fitness. i'm very excited about the next couple of months."  double olympic champion  marked her first appearance on home soil since winning 1500m and 800m gold in athens with a victory. there was a third success for britain when  edged out russia's olga fedorova and sweden's jenny kallur to win the women's 60m race in 7.23secs. maduaka was unable to repeat the feat in the 200m, finishing down in fourth as  took the win for russia. and the 31-year-old also missed out on a podium place in the 4x200m relay as the british quartet came in fourth, with russia setting a new world indoor record. there was a setback for jade johnson as she suffered a recurrence of her back injury in the long jump. russia won the meeting with a final total of 63 points, with britain second on 48 and france one point behind in third.  led the way for russia by producing a major shock in the high jump as he beat olympic champion stefan holm into second place to end the swede's 22-event unbeaten record.  won the triple jump with a leap of 16.87m, with britain's tosin oke fourth in 15.80m.  won the men's pole vault competition with a clearance of 5.65m, with britain's nick buckfield 51cm adrift of his personal best in third. and  won the women's 800m, with britain's jenny meadows third. there was yet another russian victory in the women's 400m as  finished well clear of britain's catherine murphy. chris lambert had to settle for fourth after fading in the closing stages of the men's 200m race as sweden's  held off leslie djhone of france. france's  won the men's 400m, with brett rund fourth for britain.  took victory for sweden in the women's 60m hurdles ahead of russia's irina shevchenko and britain's sarah claxton, who set a new personal best. italy grabbed their first victory in the men's 1500m as  kicked over the last 200 metres to hold off britain's james thie and france's alexis abraham. a botched changeover in the 4x200m relay cost britain's men the chance to add further points as france claimed victory. us peer-to-peer pirates convicted  the first convictions for piracy over peer-to-peer networks have been handed down in the us.  new yorker william trowbridge and texan michael chicoine have pleaded guilty to charges that they infringed copyright by illegally sharing music, movies and software. the two men faced charges following raids in august on suspected pirates by the fbi. the pair face jail terms of up to five years and a $250,000 (£130,000) fine.  in a statement the us department of justice said the two men operated the central hubs in a piracy community organised across the direct connect peer-to-peer network. the piracy group called itself the underground network and membership of it demanded that users share between one and 100 gigabytes of files. direct connect allows users to set themselves up as central servers that act as co-ordinating spots for sharers. users would swap files, such as films and music, by exchanging data over the network. during its investigation fbi agents reportedly downloaded 84 movies, 40 software programs, 13 games and 178 "sound recordings" from the five hubs that made up the larger piracy group. the raids were organised under the umbrella of operation digital gridlock which was aimed at fighting "criminal copyright theft on peer-to-peer networks". in total, six raids were carried out in august. five were on the homes of suspected copyright thieves and one on a net service firm. the department of justice said that both men pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit felony copyright infringement. they also pleaded guilty to acting for commercial advantage. the two men are due to be sentenced on 29 april. palestinian economy in decline  despite a short-lived increase in palestinian jobs in 2003, the economy is performing well below its potential, said a world bank report.  unemployment stood at 25%, compared with 10% before the uprising against israeli occupation four years ago. young people are particularly hard hit with 37% out of work, compared with 14% four years ago. but 104,000 new jobs were created last year during a brief easing of violence and closures. however, during the first half of this year, the palestinian economy lost more than 22,000 jobs. last year's growth rate of 6% can also be attributed to this temporary gap in violence, the report said. according to the report, intifada, closures and palestinian economic crisis: an assessment, there is a close link between the number of closures - both border closures and internal closures between cities - and palestinian economic problems. the closures arranged by israel restrict the movement of palestinian people and goods, slowing down trade.  "closures are a key factor behind today's economic crisis in the west bank," said nigel roberts, world bank country director for the west bank and gaza. nearly half of all palestinians - some 47% - live below the poverty line and are particularly vulnerable to economic shocks. the report said even more would be on the poverty line without an average of $950m a year from international donors, some of which goes towards job creation. it also called on the palestinian authority to revive its reform programme and maintain financial discipline to create an investment-friendly climate. this week colin powell, us secretary of state was visiting the west bank to stress us support for a smooth palestinian election in january. fockers fuel festive film chart  comedy meet the fockers topped the festive box office in north america, setting a new record for christmas day.  the sequel took $44.7m (£23.2m) between 24 and 26 december, according to studio estimates. it took $19.1m (£9.9m) on christmas day alone, the highest takings on that day in box office history. meet the fockers is the sequel to ben stiller comedy meet the parents, also starring robert de niro, blythe danner, dustin hoffman and barbra streisand. despite the success of meet the fockers, takings were down 26.5% on 2003's figures - which was blamed on christmas falling over a weekend this year.  "when christmas falls on a weekend, it's bad for business," said paul dergarabedian, president of exhibitor relations, which compiles box office statistics. the weekend's top 12 films took an estimated $121.9m (£63.3m), compared with $165.8m (£86.1m) last year, when the third lord of the rings film dominated the box office. meet the fockers knocked last week's top film, lemony snicket's a series of unfortunate events, down to third place, with $12.5m (£6.5m). comedy fat albert - co-written by bill cosby - entered the chart in second place after opening on christmas day, taking $12.7m (£6.6m). the aviator, starring leonardo dicaprio as howard hughes, took $9.4m after expanding from 40 to 1,796 cinemas on christmas day. report attacks defence spending  the ministry of defence has been criticised over the soaring spending costs and growing delays of its top equipment projects.  a national audit office report on the 20 biggest projects says costs have risen by £1.7bn in the past year. it says there is "little evidence" the mod's performance had improved, despite the introduction of a "smart acquisition" policy six years ago. a senior defence official told the bbc lessons were being learned. the nao's annual report showed the total cost of the 20 projects covered was expected to reach £50bn - 14% higher than originally planned. the total delays amounted to 62 months, with average individual delays rising by three months.  sir john bourn, head of the nao, said the problems showed the principles of the scheme known as smart acquisition had not been consistently applied. "many problems can be traced to the fact that the mod has not spent enough time and resources in the assessment phase," the report says. the nao found that projects launched since the start of the scheme were showing the same worrying tendencies as the older "legacy projects", such as the eurofighter. a senior defence official, speaking to the bbc's defence correspondent paul adams, said that although the figures were still not good enough, the report reflected unrealistic expectations early on in the project cycle. this year's overspend was significantly less than last year's £3.1bn total, and the defence procurement agency - which is responsible for buying defence equipment - was improving.  lord bach, minister for defence procurement, said he was "obviously still disappointed with the cost and time increases shown", but insisted that the defence procurement agency had "undertaken a huge amount of work to expose any underlying problems on projects". the latest findings follow a string of critical reports issued within the last 12 months, and, according to our correspondent, contain few new surprises. turning around the defence procurement agency "was a little like trying to turn around a super tanker - it takes a very long time indeed", he said. our correspondent said it was the same projects, including the joint strike fighter, the nimrod and a400m aircraft and the type 45 destroyer, which were resonsible for the bulk of the cost over-runs and delay. but he added some projects, such as the c-17 heavy lift aircraft and successor identification friend or foe (siff), were showing good performances. african double in edinburgh  world 5000m champion eliud kipchoge won the 9.2km race at the view from great edinburgh cross country.  the kenyan, who was second when newcastle hosted the race last year, was in front from the outset. ethiopian duo gebre gebremariam and dejene berhanu made last-gasp efforts to overtake him, but kipchoge responded and a burst of speed clinched victory. gavin thompson was the first briton in 12th place while nick mccormick held of his british rivals to win the 4km race. the morpeth harrier led from the end of the first lap and ended mike skinner and andrew baddeley's hopes with a surge in the lasp lap. "my training has gone so well i wasn't really worried about the opposition asi knew i was in great shape," said mccormick, who now hopes to earn a 1,500m place in the british team for the world championships in helsinki. in the women's race, ethiopia's tirunesh dibaba won a battle with world cross country champion benita johnson to retain her title. australian johnson, who shocked her african rivals in brussels last march, looked to be on course for another win in the 6.2km race. but world 5000m champion dibaba make a telling strike for the finishing line in the final 20 metres. britons kathy butler and hayley yelling were out of contention early on. google launches tv search service  the net search giant google has launched a search service that lets people look for tv programmes.  the service, google video beta, searches closed caption information that comes with programmes. it only searches us channel content currently. results list programmes with still images and text from the point where the search phrase was spoken. it should expand over time to include content from more channels, said a google spokesperson. the first version of the service is part of google's expanding efforts to be a ubiquitous search engine for people to find what they want on the web and beyond. "we think tv is a big part of people's lives," said jonathan rosenberg, google's vice president of product management. "ultimately, we would like to have all tv programming indexed."  google video has been indexing us-based programmes from pbs, the nba, fox news, and c-span since december. but there were few clues from google about when more global broadcasters would be included. "over time, we plan to increase the number of television channels and video content available via google video but don't have more product details to share with you today," a google spokesperson told the bbc news website.  the results thrown up by the search will also include programme and episode information like channel, date and time. it also lets people find the next time and channel where a programme will aired locally using a us zip code search function. rival search engine yahoo has been developing a similar type of video search for webcasts and tv clips which it promotes from its homepage. it offers direct links to websites with movies or other clips relevant to the search query, but does not pinpoint when the search query occurred. a spokeswoman told the financial times on monday that yahoo was adding captioning for bloomberg, bbc and bskyb broadcasts. a smaller service, blinkx.tv, was launched last month. it searches for and links to tv news, film trailers, and other video and audio clips. china had role in yukos split-up  china lent russia $6bn (£3.2bn) to help the russian government renationalise the key yuganskneftegas unit of oil group yukos, it has been revealed.  the kremlin said on tuesday that the $6bn which russian state bank veb lent state-owned rosneft to help buy yugansk in turn came from chinese banks. the revelation came as the russian government said rosneft had signed a long-term oil supply deal with china. the deal sees rosneft receive $6bn in credits from china's cnpc.  according to russian newspaper vedomosti, these credits would be used to pay off the loans rosneft received to finance the purchase of yugansk. reports said cnpc had been offered 20% of yugansk in return for providing finance but the company opted for a long-term oil supply deal instead. analysts said one factor that might have influenced the chinese decision was the possibility of litigation from yukos, yugansk's former owner, if cnpc had become a shareholder. rosneft and veb declined to comment. "the two companies [rosneft and cnpc] have agreed on the pre-payment for long-term deliveries," said russian oil official sergei oganesyan. "there is nothing unusual that the pre-payment is for five to six years."  the announcements help to explain how rosneft, a medium-sized, indebted, and relatively unknown firm, was able to finance its surprise purchase of yugansk. yugansk was sold for $9.3bn in an auction last year to help yukos pay off part of a $27bn bill in unpaid taxes and fines.  the embattled russian oil giant had previously filed for bankruptcy protection in a us court in an attempt to prevent the forced sale of its main production arm. but yugansk was sold to a little known shell company which in turn was bought by rosneft. yukos claims its downfall was punishment for the political ambitions of its founder mikhail khodorkovsky. once the country's richest man, mr khodorkovsky is on trial for fraud and tax evasion.  the deal between rosneft and cnpc is seen as part of china's desire to secure long-term oil supplies to feed its booming economy. china's thirst for products such as crude oil, copper and steel has helped pushed global commodity prices to record levels. "clearly the chinese are trying to get some leverage [in russia]," said dmitry lukashov, an analyst at brokerage aton. "they understand property rights in russia are not the most important rights, and they are more interested in guaranteeing supplies." "if the price of oil is fixed under the deal, which is unlikely, it could be very profitable for the chinese," mr lukashov continued. "and rosneft is in desperate need of cash, so it's a good deal for them too." dvd review: spider-man 2  it's a universal rule that a film can either be a superhero special effects extravaganza or it can be good. but spider-man 2 breaks that rule in two.  it's not fantastically deep but you get quickly drawn into the tale of spidey versus doc ock and more so into the fate of poor peter parker. gigantic action set pieces seamlessly work with more brooding personal torment and it all looks stunning. a few effects look false but tobey maguire, kirsten dunst and alfred molina make this compelling. the other universal rule is that dvds of superhero films will have making of features only about the effects. this disc covers those special effects enough but as just one part of a detailed look at the film. then there are commentaries, trailers and a blooper reel.  sometimes quality comes in bulk: this set contains no less than 34 john wayne films ranging from the westerns and war movies to the quiet man.  now is that a christmas present or what? give this to someone on 24 december and you won't see them again until early in the new year. it's not truly a complete collection and leans more toward wayne's earlier films: there's no true grit, for instance, though there is hellraisers. the films look well transferred to dvd, though none has extras.  it was very daft but it knew it was and somehow this famous 1979 series became a cult favourite that's been long awaited on dvd. this set has the first season of buck (gil gerard) and wilma's (erin gray) tongue-in-cheek adventures and it's all as camp and gaudy as you remember. but it's also a disappointment. the us dvd has this and the more po-faced second season - and you can import it for just about the same price. the bigger omission, though, is that there are no extras. that's particularly disappointing because originally there were meant to be commentaries and stars gerard and gray had agreed to do them. brown names 16 march for budget  chancellor gordon brown will deliver his budget to the house of commons on 16 march, the treasury has announced.  the budget, likely to be the last before the general election, will be at 1230 gmt on that wednesday, just after prime minister's question time. the annual event is when the chancellor outlines the government's taxation and broader economic predictions. it is likely to set out much of the tax and spending battleground for the election, widely expected on 5 may.  next month's budget will be mr brown's eighth since labour came to power in 1997. if a may election is called, there could be as little as 18 days between the budget and the announcement of a date for the election. a shortened finance bill would have to be rushed through parliament with all-party support to allow the government to continue collecting revenue. the full finance bill, with the budget measures in it, would then be returned to the commons after the election, if labour secures another term in office. as mr brown announced the budget date in a short ministerial statement, accountancy firm ernst & young urged him to put politics aside and focus on the long-term requirements of the economy. "in the budgets that were given immediately before the last six elections, taxes were cut by the incumbent chancellor and, in many cases, taxes were increased soon after the election result," said aidan o'carroll, e&y's uk head of tax. yelling takes cardiff hat-trick  european cross-country champion hayley yelling completed a hat-trick of wins in the reebok cardiff cross challenge in bute park on sunday afternoon.  the part-time maths teacher beat irish international jolene byrne by 40 metres in the six-kilometre race. another great britain international, louise damen, finished third as part of the contingent representing england. peter riley, who secured bronze for the gb men's team at last month's european championships, won the men's 9km race. riley, representing england, moved away over the last two kilometres to win by 25 metres from ireland's gary murray. glynn tromans - the reigning uk inter-countries and england cross-country champion - came in third place as he continues his comeback from a five-month injury lay-off. rich pickings for hi-tech thieves  viruses, trojans and other malicious programs sent on to the net to catch you out are undergoing a subtle change.  the shift is happening as tech savvy criminals turn to technology to help them con people out of cash, steal valuable data or take over home pcs. viruses written to make headlines by infecting millions are getting rarer. instead programs are now crafted for directly criminal ends and firms are tightening up networks with defences to combat the new wave of malicious code.  the growing criminal use of malware has meant the end of the neat categorisation of different sorts of viruses and malicious programs. before now it has been broadly possible to name and categorise viruses by the method they use to spread and how they infect machines. but many of the viruses written by criminals roll lots of technical tricks together into one nasty package.  "you cannot put them in to the neat little box that you used to," said pete simpson, head of the threat laboratory at security firm clearswift. now viruses are just as likely to spread by themselves like worms, or to exploit loopholes in browsers or hide in e-mail message attachments. "it's about outright criminality now," said mr simpson, explaining why this change has come about. he said many of the criminal programs came from eastern europe where cash-rich organised gangs can find a ready supply of technical experts that will crank out code to order. former virus writer marek strihavka, aka benny from the 29a virus writing group, recently quit the malware scene partly because it was being taken over by spyware writers, phishing gangs, and spammers who are more interested in money rather than the technology. no longer do virus writers produce programs to show off their technical prowess to rivals in the underground world of malware authors. not least, said paul king, principal security consultant at cisco, because the defences against such attacks are so common. "in many ways the least likely way to do it is e-mail because most of us have got anti-virus and firewalls now," he said. few of the malicious programs written by hi-tech thieves are cleverly written, many are much more pragmatic and use tried and tested techniques to infect machines or to trick users into installing a program or handing over important data. "if you think of criminals they do not do clever," said mr king, "they just do what works."  as the tactics used by malicious programs change, said mr king, so many firms were changing the way they defend themselves. now many scan machines that connect to the corporate networks to ensure they have not been compromised while off the core network.  many will not let a machine connect and a worker get on with their job before the latest patches and settings have been uploaded. as well as using different tactics, criminals also use technology for reasons that are much more transparent. "the main motivation now is money," said gary stowell, spokesman for st bernard software. mr stowell said organised crime gangs were turning to computer crime because the risks of being caught were low and the rates of return were very high. with almost any phishing or spyware attack, criminals are guaranteed to catch some people out and have the contacts to exploit what they recover. so-called spyware was proving very popular with criminals because it allowed them to take over machines for their own ends, to steal key data from users or to hijack web browsing sessions to point people at particular sites. in some cases spyware was being written that searched for rival malicious programs on pcs it infects and then trying to erase them so it has sole ownership of that machine. deadline nears for fiat-gm deal  fiat and general motors (gm) have until midnight on 1 february to settle a disagreement over a potential takeover.  the deadline marks the point at which fiat will gain the right to sell its car division to gm, part of an alliance agreed in 2000. gm, whose own european operations are losing money, no longer wants to own the unprofitable fiat unit. reports of deadlocked talks sent fiat shares down 1.2% on tuesday, after monday's 4% gain on hopes of a payoff. the us firm is thought to be offering about $2bn (£1.06bn) to extricate itself from the arrangement. it has argued the deal was voided by fiat's decision to sell off fiat's finance arm and halve gm's stake via a capital-raising effort.  the 2000 deal resulted from a race between gm and daimlerchrysler to ally with fiat. the german firm wanted to buy fiat outright. but gianni agnelli, the godfather of the group, wanted to keep control, and preferred gm's offer to buy a 20% stake and give fiat the right to sell in the future, known as a "put option". since then, however, fiat cars have lost market share and the firm has piled up losses, while a plan to raise new money in 2003 cut gm's stake in half to 10%. for its part, gm's european units opel and saab have both had trouble, with opel management threatening to cut 12,000 jobs. "the last thing they need is additional production capacity in europe," said patrick juchemich, auto analyst at sal oppenheim bank. baby becomes new oscar favourite  clint eastwood's boxing drama million dollar baby has become the new favourite to win best picture at the oscars on sunday.  according to pundits, the film has overtaken previous favourite the aviator, with eastwood also tipped to take the best director award. its star hilary swank is favourite to win best actress while jamie foxx is tipped to win best actor for ray. million dollar baby has seven nominations while the aviator has 11. the aviator has scored a best director nomination for martin scorsese, who has never won an oscar, while stars leonardo dicaprio and cate blanchett are both nominated for acting oscars.  "if you look at the oscars race, the aviator should be ahead," said awards pundit tom o'neil. "it is the most nominated film, and the most nominated movie has won best picture 18 times out of the last 20 years. "but the reality is million dollar baby is the dark horse. people feel emotionally about it and clint is a beloved hollywood chum of the academy voters," he said. anne thompson of the hollywood reporter said that million dollar baby was "heart-wrenching". "it's very emotional, it even makes grown men cry," she said. "the aviator is a gorgeous movie, but it's colder."  in the acting categories, foxx is regarded as almost unbeatable for his performance as ray charles in ray. "the performance is based on a real person who was a showbusiness hero with a handicap, who recently died," o'neil said. "he has unstoppable momentum among the voters." hilary swank is the favourite to win best actress for the second time in six years. she previously won in 1999 for her performance in boys don't cry. in the supporting categories, cate blanchett is tipped to win for her performance as katharine hepburn in the aviator, while morgan freeman is favourite to take home his first ever oscar, for million dollar baby. the oscars will take place at hollywood's kodak theatre on 27 february. asylum children to face returns  the uk government is planning to return asylum seeker children without parents to albania.  the trial scheme, which could start in weeks, may be extended to apply to children from other countries. children's charities have reacted with alarm, saying the policy amounts to forcible removal and may not guarantee the safety of those affected. but the home office says it may be in the children's best interests if it reunites them with their communities.  the pilot, included in the government's five-year immigration plan, aims to return unaccompanied asylum-seeking children from albania who have failed in their asylum claims.  since 2002, at least 9,000 under-18s have arrived in the uk to seek asylum without other family members. these children automatically become the responsibility of social services. up to now, ministers have held back from final removal orders against unaccompanied children until after they are legally adults at 18. at least a dozen albanian-born teenagers are thought to have been identified for return, according to sources, although there is no public confirmation of numbers. those selected could either be returned to their families, should they be traced, or placed in the care of other albanian authorities. separate negotiations to establish a family tracing and returns scheme are believed to be underway with another country.  under the 1989 children act, public bodies have a duty to act in the "best interest" of a child in their care. laura brownlees of save the children said there were grave concerns, not least because of the well-documented trafficking of children into crime and prostitution in albania.  "if children are going to be returned then there should be proper assessments and decisions on a case by case basis," she said. "we do not think there are structures in place [to receive returning children in albania]. 'if these decisions are not in the best interests of the child, then that is a forced removal because the child will not have any choice in the final decision." in its five-year immigration plan, announced on tuesday, the government said it was addressing "the difficult issue" of returning unaccompanied asylum seeking children. a spokesman for the home office said it was wholly wrong to suggest that the plan was to return children "and leave them to rot". "we are developing a returns programme for unaccompanied asylum-seeking children whose asylum and humanitarian protection claims have been refused," said the spokesman. "we have been exploring how we can establish reception and longer-term care arrangements in countries of origin and believe that it's possible to return children in a way that is in their best interests and is safe and sustainable.  "we do not believe that it is right, or in keeping with children's legislation, that children who can return should remain in the uk indefinitely separated from their families and communities." the spokesman stressed the uk would abide by its international human rights obligations. only those children who could be provided with a carefully planned reintegration package would be returned, he said. but andrew hogg, spokesman for the medical foundation for the care of victims of torture, said ministers had so far failed to reassure agencies. "from what is so far known, we strongly oppose the scheme because the welfare and best interests of the child will not properly be taken into account," said mr hogg. "in albania particularly there is no statutory child care or protection structure. "the medical foundation has many serious concerns, including the assessment process for suitability for return, the degrading of best interests of the child principles and of child welfare, and the lack of safeguards in the chosen countries." a spokesman for the albanian embassy in london said it was the first it had heard of a scheme, but did not rule out that there had been an agreement between the two countries. butler strikes gold in spain  britain's kathy butler continued her impressive year with victory in sunday's 25th cross internacional de venta de banos in spain.  the scot, who led gb to world cross country bronze earlier this year, moved away from the field with ines monteiro halfway into the 6.6km race. she then shrugged off her portuguese rival to win in 20 minutes 38 seconds. meanwhile, briton karl keska battled bravely to finish seventh in the men's 10.6km race in a time of 31:41. kenenisa bekele of ethiopia - the reigning world long and short course champion - was never troubled by any of the opposition, winning leisurely in 30.26. butler said of her success: "i felt great throughout the race and hope this is a good beginning for a marvellous 2005 season for me." elsewhere, abebe dinkessa of ethiopia won the brussels iaaf cross-country race on sunday, completing the 10,500m course in 33.22. gelete burka then crowned a great day for ethiopia by claiming victory in the women's race. blog reading explodes in america  americans are becoming avid blog readers, with 32 million getting hooked in 2004, according to new research.  the survey, conducted by the pew internet and american life project, showed that blog readership has shot up by 58% in the last year. some of this growth is attributable to political blogs written and read during the us presidential campaign. despite the explosive growth, more than 60% of online americans have still never heard of blogs, the survey found. blogs, or web logs, are online spaces in which people can publish their thoughts, opinions or spread news events in their own words. companies such as google and microsoft provide users with the tools to publish their own blogs.  the rise of blogs has spawned a new desire for immediate news and information, with six million americans now using rss aggregators. rss aggregators are downloaded to pcs and are programmed to subscribe to feeds from blogs, news sites and other websites. the aggregators automatically compile the latest information published online from the blogs or news sites. reading blogs remains far more popular than writing them, the survey found. only 7% of the 120 million us adults who use the internet had created a blog or web-based diary. getting involved is becoming more popular though, with 12% saying they had posted material or comments on other people's blogs.  just under one in 10 of the us's internet users read political blogs such as the daily kos or instapundit during the us presidential campaign. kerry voters were slightly more likely to read them than bush voters. blog creators were likely to be young, well-educated, net-savvy males with good incomes and college educations, the survey found. this was also true of the average blog reader, although the survey found there was a greater than average growth in blog readership among women and those in minorities. the survey was conducted during november and involved telephone surveys of 1,324 internet users. id theft surge hits us consumers  almost a quarter of a million us consumers complained of being targeted for identity theft in 2004, official figures suggest.  the federal trade commission said two in five of the 635,173 reports it had from consumers concerned id fraud. id theft occurs when criminals use someone else's personal information to steal credit or commit other crimes. internet auctions were the second biggest source of fraud complaints, comprising 16% of the total. the total cost of fraud reported by consumers was $546m (£290m).  the report marks the fifth year in a row in which identity fraud has topped the table. the biggest slice of the 246,570 id fraud cases reported - almost 30% - concerned abuses of people's credit. misusing someone's identity to claim new credit cards or loans comprised 16.5% of the total, with almost 12% coming from false claims on existing credit. another 18% came from attempts to rip off people's bank accounts, while 13% of cases concerned attempts to defraud employers by abusing someone else's identity. outside the field of id theft, 53% of the near-400,000 complaints were internet-related. among the 100,000 internet auction complaints, the failure of sellers to deliver or the supply of sub-standard goods were the most common woes reported. catalogue and home-shopping frauds were next in line, accounting for 8% of total complaints, while concerns about internet services and computers - including spyware found on people's pcs and undisclosed charges for websites - amounted to 6% of complaints. russian film wins bbc world prize  russian drama the return (vozvrashchenie) has been named winner of the bbc four world cinema award.  the film tells the story of two adolescent boys who are subjected to a harsh regime when their strict father returns after a 10-year absence. directed by andrey zvyagintsev, the return previously won the 2003 golden lion award at the venice film festival. the prize was presented at an awards ceremony held in london on thursday and hosted by jonathan ross. the winner was chosen by a panel which included x files actress gillian anderson, critic roger clarke and touching the void director kevin mcdonald.  ross, who is the presenter of bbc one's film 2005, was also involved in the deliberations. a shortlist of six films from around the world had been drawn up from which the panel chose. other nominees included the motorcycle diaries, zatoichi and hero. a viewer poll saw director zhang yimou's martial arts epic hero emerge as the favourite with 32% of votes cast. tragedy struck the production of the return when one of the young stars, 15-year-old vladimir girin, drowned in a lake where some of the film's scenes were set. the winner of the world cinema award last year was the french animated feature belleville rendezvous 'fido' to be taken off vote lists  the risk of pets and children being given votes could be cut by changing how people register to vote, the uk elections watchdog has said.  those are some of the mistakes found under the current system, where one person in each household applies for voting forms for the other occupants. the electoral commission says enabling people to register individually could cut some errors and combat fraud. voters need to register by 11 march if the next poll is on 5 may as expected. but any individual registration scheme would not be introduced in britain before that general election.  the proposed scheme would mean voters using individual "identifiers" when they vote - such as their own voting number, date of birth and signature. the electoral commission says having voters register individually rather than the head of household do it for them fits better with human rights laws. chairman sam younger told mps on tuesday care was needed to ensure that people were not lost off the register in the process - which happened when northern ireland switched to a similar system. there have been rare cases when household pets have been put on the electoral roll, the mps heard. and some people have registered all their family, regardless of their age - birth dates are not included on the forms so election officers cannot easily check. non-british citizens who are not entitled to vote have also been registered in some cases.  mr younger said there was anecdotal evidence of inaccuracies in the register, the vast majority of which were caused by genuine mistakes. he argued local councils could look harder at promoting targeted campaigns at "hard to reach" voters, for example. some authorities already run such programmes but in others councillors worry about the party political impact of encouraging particular areas to turn out. mr younger said using the royal mail's postal redirection service had already helped election officers retrace about 50,000 voters.  he argued individual registration would also increase security for postal ballots and other new ways of voting. there have been fears there are too few checks to ensure current postal votes are cast by the person on the voting form. he said it might also help register students in halls of residences, where the hall warden often has to do the job for everybody. the mps on the office of the deputy prime minister and constitutional affairs select committees pressed mr younger on how to avoid losing voters in any changeover. he said the northern ireland example illustrated real difficulties to be confronted. currently, british voters have to re-register to vote every year or face being removed from the electoral rolls if they fail to do so two years running. mr younger suggested the re-registration could happen less frequently but argued efforts were needed to check the electoral rolls were up-to-date. wada will appeal against ruling  the world anti-doping agency (wada) will appeal against the acquittal of kostas kenteris and katerina thanou on doping charges, if the iaaf does not.  the pair were cleared of charges relating to missing dope tests by the greek athletics federation last week. wada chairman dick pound said: "i am convinced the iaaf will appeal against the decision, and we will support them. "but if they accept the federation's ruling we will go before the court of arbitration for sport," he added. kenteris's lawyer, gregory ioannidis, reacted angrily to pound's comments. "comments like these only help to embarrass the sporting governing bodies, create a hostage situation for the iaaf and strengthen our case further," he told bbc sport. kenteris, 31, and thanou, 30, had been charged with avoiding drugs tests in tel aviv, chicago and athens and failing to notify anti-doping officials of their whereabouts before the olympics. they withdrew from the athens games after missing a drugs test at the olympic village on 12 august.  but an independent tribunal ruled that the duo had not been informed that they needed to attend a drugs test in athens.  however, their former coach christos tzekos was banned for four years by the tribunal. kenteris and thanou still have to face trial on charges brought separately by greek prosecutors of missing the drugs tests and faking a motorcycle accident to avoid testing at the athens games. software watching while you work  software that can not only monitor every keystroke and action performed at a pc but also be used as legally binding evidence of wrong-doing has been unveiled.  worries about cyber-crime and sabotage have prompted many employers to consider monitoring employees. the developers behind the system claim it is a break-through in the way data is monitored and stored. but privacy advocates are concerned by the invasive nature of such software.  the system is a joint venture between security firm 3ami and storage specialists bridgehead software. they have joined forces to create a system which can monitor computer activity, store it and retrieve disputed files within minutes. more and more firms are finding themselves in deep water as a result of data misuse. sabotage and data theft are most commonly committed from within an organisation according to the national hi-tech crime unit (nhtcu) a survey conducted on its behalf by nop found evidence that more than 80% of medium and large companies have been victims of some form of cyber-crime. bridgehead software has come up with techniques to prove, to a legal standard, that any stored file on a pc has not been tampered with. ironically the impetus for developing the system came as a result of the freedom of information act, which requires companies to store all data for a certain amount of time.  the storage system has been incorporated into an application developed by security firm 3ami which allows every action on a computer to be logged. potentially it could help employers to follow the trail of stolen files and pinpoint whether they had been emailed to a third party, copied, printed, deleted or saved to cd, floppy disk, memory stick or flash card. other activities the system can monitor include the downloading of pornography, the use of racist or bullying language or the copying of applications for personal use. increasingly organisations that handle sensitive data, such as governments, are using biometric log-ins such as fingerprinting to provide conclusive proof of who was using a particular machine at any given time. privacy advocates are concerned that monitoring at work is not only damaging to employee's privacy but also to the relationship between employers and their staff. "that is not the case," said tim ellsmore, managing director of 3ami. "it is not about replacing dialogue but there are issues that you can talk through but you still need proof," he said. "people need to recognise that you are using a pc as a representative of a company and that employers have a legal requirement to store data," he added. argentina, venezuela in oil deal  argentina and venezuela have extended a food-for-oil deal, which helped the former to overcome a severe energy crisis last year.  argentine president nestor kirchner and venezuelan president hugo chavez signed the deal in buenos aires on tuesday. last april, argentina signed a $240m agreement to import venezuelan fuel in exchange for agricultural goods and this deal has now been extended. venezuela will now import cattle, medicines and medical equipment. last year, argentina's severe energy crisis forced president kirchner to suspend gas exports to chile. argentina fears that rising demand could spark another crisis and wants to prevent it by signing this deal. the two countries also formalised a co-operation deal between venezuelan energy firm pdvsa and argentina's enarsa. under this deal, the argentine market will be opened to venezuelan investment. president chavez added that brazil's petrobras could join soon the co-operation deal. president chavez is an ardent promoter of the concept of a south american oil company, which could include the state-owned companies of venezuela, argentina, brazil and bolivia. the two presidents also agreed to create 'television sur', a latin american network of state-owned television channels. us tv cuts nudity from bbc film  a us tv network is editing bbc films' dirty war to avoid showing the front of a nude woman being scrubbed down after a fictional chemical attack.  it is not worth showing "non-essential" nude scenes when indecency complaints are "aggressively pursued" by us tv watchdogs, said pbs' jacoba atlas. dirty war - screened uncut on bbc one last september - depicts a dirty bomb attack on the city of london. it is also being screened uncut on us cable channel hbo on 24 january. pbs said it will use extra footage for its broadcast, showing the woman "from a more discreet angle" instead.  the us federal communications commission fined cbs $550,000 (£306,814) last autumn for singer janet jackson's "wardrobe malfunction", during which her breast was exposed during a dance routine with justin timberlake. many us networks and broadcasters are now more nervous about airing nudity, violence or bad language. ms atlas said pbs could put itself financially at risk if it showed the uncut version of dirty war, and it could also deter many of its 170 individual stations from airing "an important film". "you want to pick your battles," she said. she added that pbs, which is a private, non-profit media enterprise owned and operated by the nation's 349 public television stations, is bolder about screening non-fiction or historical programming. pbs is seen in virtually all us homes with tv, and describes itself as a "trusted community resource" serving nearly 100 million people each week. 'more to do' on adult literacy  the government will only hit its target for improving adult maths and literacy skills if courses are made more attractive, a report says.  the national audit office praised ministers for reaching the benchmark of 750,000 adults in england gaining basic qualifications by this year. but a target of 1.5 million more by 2010 needed "creative" ideas. some 26 million adults lack maths or english skill levels expected of school-leavers.  according to the report, "more than half" the qualifications achieved were by learners aged 16 to 18. these are defined as "adults" by the government for the purpose of compiling these figures. normally adults are defined as being aged over 19. the number of these people gaining qualifications was "rising slowly". auditor general sir john bourn said: "higher levels of literacy and numeracy will benefit england both socially and economically. "more people will have the opportunity to live richer lives." in 2001, the government launched the get on scheme - aimed at reducing illiteracy and innumeracy. sir john said "substantial progress" had been made since, adding that this was "only the beginning". the government and its partners would "need to be creative and responsive". some £3.7bn will be spent on implementing the programme by 2006. the report recommends gathering more details on the educational needs of areas, so courses can be set to meet local demand. existing adult learners could use their "enthusiasm, commitment and local knowledge" to attract other people. the department for education and skills could also use more "personalised learning" and work with voluntary groups, councils and employers.  it should also assess adult learners' progress "at frequent intervals", the report adds. when the government announced it had reached its 2004 target earlier this month, prime minister tony blair said it was "only the start of the journey". an estimated 5.2 million adults have worse literacy than that expected of 11 year olds, while 14.9 million have numeracy skills below this level. this is thought to cost the uk economy hundreds of millions of pounds each year. the qualifications achieved by those taking part in the government's scheme range up to gcse equivalents. get on's participation target has been set at 2.25 million by 2010, with an interim figure of 1.5 million by 2007. education minister ivan lewis said: "we will continue to use creative ways of involving people with the lowest skill levels and the report shows that our efforts are gathering pace." shadow education secretary tim collins said: "this is the third report in two days to highlight labour's failure to ensure young people acquire the necessary levels of literacy and numeracy for their working life. "employers and business leaders have repeatedly voiced concern over the number of school-leavers without these basic skills, but all the government have offered is more talk." liberal democrat education spokesman phil willis added: "far too little has been done to enable adult learners to fit learning into their busy lives." greek sprinters 'won't run again'  the careers of sprinters kostas kenteris and katerina thanou are over, says the boss of the organisation that cleared them of missing a drugs test.  greek athletics federation boss vassilli sevastis told the country's parliament: "i believe kenteris and thanou won't race again. "the damage to their commercial interests has been done," he added. athletics bosses are considering its reponse to the ruling, while the athletes face a trial in a greek court. greek prosecutors have brought spearate charges of missing the drugs test and faking a motorcycle accident. speaking to the greek parliament on tuesday, sevastis said that the evidence sent by the international olympic committee and athletics governing body the iaaf was not strong enough for the greek association to find the sprinters guilty.  "we were given the task of getting the snake out if its hole but we were not given any evidence to do it with," he said. "so how can you as a greek with your hand on your heart try the athletes?" he added. the athletes are technically free to compete while the iaaf reviews its response to the decision to clear kenteris and thanou. but sevastis said: "it does not matter if they are found guilty at the court of arbitration for sport and the current decision is reversed." new delay hits eu software laws  a fresh delay has hit controversial new european union rules which govern computer-based inventions.  the draft law was not adopted by eu ministers as planned at a brussels meeting on monday during which it was supposed to have been discussed. the fresh delay came after polish officials had raised concerns about the law for the second time in two months. critics say the law would favour large companies over small ones and could impact open-source software innovation. "there was at one point the intention to put the item on today's agenda. but in the end we could not put it on," an eu spokesman told the reuters agency. he added that no date had been chosen for more discussion of the law.  in december, poland requested more time to consider the issue because it was concerned that the law could lead to the patenting of pure computer software. its ministers want to see the phrasing of the text of the directive on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions changed so that it excludes software patenting. poland is a large eu member, so its backing for the legislation is vital. the eu says the law would bring europe more in line with how such laws work in the us, but this has caused some angry debate amongst critics and supporters. in the us, the patenting of computer programs and internet business methods is permitted. this means that the us-based amazon.com holds a patent for its "one-click shopping" service. critics say a similar model in europe would hurt small software developers which do not have the legal and financial might of larger companies. but supporters say current law does not let big companies protect inventions which they have spent years developing. bmw to recall faulty diesel cars  bmw is to recall all cars equipped with a faulty diesel fuel-injection pump supplied by parts maker robert bosch.  the faulty part does not represent a safety risk and the recall only affects pumps made in december and january. bmw said that it was too early to say how many cars were affected or how much the recall would cost. the german company is to extend a planned production break at one of its plants due to the faulty bosch part. the dingolfing site will now be closed all next week instead of for just two days. the additional three-day stoppage will mean a production loss of up to 3,600 vehicles, bmw said, adding that it was confident it could make up the numbers later.  bosch has stopped production of the part but expects to restart by 2 february. the faulty component does not represent a safety risk but causes the motor to stall after a significant amount of mileage. when asked if bmw would be seeking compensation from bosch, the carmaker's chief executive helmut panke said: "we will first solve the problem before talking about who will pay". audi and mercedes benz were also supplied with the defective diesel fuel-injection pumps but neither of them have to recall any vehicles. a spokesman for daimlerchrysler, parent company of mercedes benz, said it will however have to halt some production. it is to close the mercedes factory in sindelfingen on monday and tuesday. audi said it had been hit by production bottlenecks, due to a shortage of unaffected bosch parts. oscars race enters final furlong  the race for the oscars entered its final stages as the deadline for voters to choose their winners passed.  the 5,808 academy voters had until tuesday afternoon to return their ballots - any late submissions will not be included in the count. the next five days will be spent counting the voting forms and preparing the winners' envelopes. best actor nominee leonardo dicaprio is to present a statuette for the first time at the la ceremony on sunday.  the 30-year-old actor, who is nominated for playing howard hughes in the aviator, will join other hopefuls such as co-star cate blanchett, natalie portman and kate winslet as oscar presenters. the only people who will know the oscar winners before they are revealed at the ceremony will be the auditors who are in charge of looking after the ballot count.  after collating the results, they are responsible for sealing the results in the famous golden envelopes which will be revealed by a host of celebrity presenters at the ceremony. former academy award winners gwyneth paltrow, dustin hoffman and halle berry will also present prizes. the event at the kodak theatre will be attended by 3,300 people, including some of the best-known names in film, and organisers say they expect it will be watched on television by one billion people around the world. one current concern is the torrential rain which has lashed los angeles for the past week, flooding suburbs and causing mudslides. it is hoped the forecast for sunday, for cool weather but no rain, will prove accurate. "the last time it rained on oscars night was in the mid-to-late 1980s," said oscars communications director john pavlik. "we have had rain up until the day before the show many times, but for some reason the oscar gods always shine on sunday and we hope they will do so again this year," he added. tory backing for id cards  the tories are to back controversial government plans to introduce id cards.  the shadow cabinet revealed its support ahead of next week's commons vote on a bill to introduce compulsory id. the decision follows a "tough meeting" where some senior tories argued vociferously against the move, party sources told the bbc. the bill, which ministers claim will tackle crime, terrorism and illegal immigration, is expected to be opposed by the liberal democrats.  they have said the scheme is "deeply flawed" and a waste of money. sources within the conservative party told the bbc michael howard has always been in favour of id cards, and tried to introduce them when he was home secretary. the party has been "agnostic" on the issue until now but had now decided to come off the fence, the tory source said. despite giving their backing to id cards, the conservatives insisted they would hold ministers to account over the precise purpose of the scheme.  they said they would also press labour over whether objectives could be met and whether the home office would deliver them. and they pledged to assess the cost effectiveness of id cards and whether people's privacy would be properly protected. "it is important to remember that this bill will take a decade to come into full effect," a spokesman said. "it will do nothing to solve the immediate problems of rising crime and uncontrolled immigration."  lib dem home affairs spokesman mark oaten said: "this has all the signs of michael howard overruling colleagues' concerns over id cards. "the tories should have the courage to try and change public opinion not follow it." the new chairman of the bar council, guy mansfield qc warned there was a real risk that people on the "margins of society" would be driven into the hands of extremists. "what is going to happen to young asian men when there has been a bomb gone off somewhere? they are going to be stopped. if they haven't [id cards] they are going to be detained." iaaf will contest greek decision  the international association of athletics federations will appeal against the acquittal of greek athletes kostas kenteris and katerina thanou.  the high-profile duo were cleared of doping offences by the greek athletics federation (segas) last month. now the iaaf will lodge an appeal with the court of arbitration for sport (cas) and has suspended both athletes. an iaaf statement said: "the doping review board concluded that the decision is erroneous." the statement continued: "both athletes' cases will be refered to arbitration before the cas. the decision in both cases will be final and binding."  segas said the iaaf appeal was "expected" and "understandable." "now we are going to await the final result, which we cannot prejudge," said segas chairman vassilis sevastis. kenteris, who won olympic 200m gold at the 2000 olympics, and thanou were suspended by the iaaf last december after failing to take routine drugs tests before the athens games. however, the independent tribunal overturned those bans, clearing the sprinters of avoiding tests in tel aviv, chicago and athens and failing to notify anti-doping officials of their whereabouts before the olympics.  kenteris' lawyer gregory ioannidis described the iaaf's decision as "not unexpected" but told bbc sport he did not expect the organisation to take action so quickly. "the iaaf's timing is extremely surprising and it creates concerns and questions," said ioannidis. "the iaaf has not yet received the complete file of proceedings which include statements, testimonies, the closing speeches of defence counsel... and nine audio tapes.  "we have the evidence and it is time the world discovered the truth." kenteris and thanou dramatically withdrew from last summer's olympics after missing a drugs test at the olympic village on 12 august. the pair then spent four days in a hospital, claiming they had been injured in a motorcycle crash. it was the international olympic committee who demanded the iaaf investigate the affair. thanou and kenteris still face a criminal trial later this year for allegedly avoiding the test and then faking a motorcycle accident savvy searchers fail to spot ads  internet search engine users are an odd mix of naive and sophisticated, suggests a report into search habits.  the report by the us pew research center reveals that 87% of searchers usually find what they were looking for when using a search engine. it also shows that few can spot the difference between paid-for results and organic ones. the report reveals that 84% of net users say they regularly use google, ask jeeves, msn and yahoo when online.  almost 50% of those questioned said they would trust search engines much less, if they knew information about who paid for results was being hidden. according to figures gathered by the pew researchers the average users spends about 43 minutes per month carrying out 34 separate searches and looks at 1.9 webpages for each hunt. a significant chunk of net users, 36%, carry out a search at least weekly and 29% of those asked only look every few weeks. for 44% of those questioned, the information they are looking for is critical to what they are doing and is information they simply have to find.  search engine users also tend to be very loyal and once they have found a site they feel they can trust tend to stick with it. according to pew research 44% of searchers use just a single search engine, 48% use two or three and a small number, 7%, consult more than three sites. tony macklin, spokesman for ask jeeves, said the results reflected its own research which showed that people use different search engines because the way the sites gather information means they can provide different results for the same query. despite this liking for search sites half of those questioned said they could get the same information via other routes. a small number, 17%, said they wouldn't really miss search engines if they did not exist. the remaining 33% said they could not live without search sites. more than two-thirds of those questioned, 68%, said they thought that the results they were presented with were a fair and unbiased selection of the information on a topic that can be found on the net. alongside the growing sophistication of net users is a lack of awareness about paid-for results that many search engines provide alongside lists of websites found by indexing the web. of those asked, 62% were unaware that someone has paid for some of the results they see when they carry out a search. only 18% of all searchers say they can tell which results are paid for and which are not. said the pew report: "this finding is ironic, since nearly half of all users say they would stop using search engines if they thought engines were not being clear about how they presented paid results." commenting mr macklin said sponsored results must be clearly marked and though they might help with some queries user testing showed that people need to be able to spot the difference. takeover rumour lifts exel shares  shares in storage and delivery firm exel closed up 9% at a two-and-a-half year high on tuesday on speculation it is to receive an imminent takeover bid.  the talk in the city is that us giant united parcel services (ups) is the most likely bidder for the firm. yet other names mentioned in connection to buying exel are dhl-owner deutsche post and finance firm ge capital. with its shares closing tuesday at 873p, bracknell-based exel is currently valued at £2.6bn ($6.3bn).  exel employs 109,000 people in more than 120 countries and has itself been active in the consolidation of the logistics sector, paying £328m to buy fellow uk firm tibbett & britten last august. its customers include boots, burberry, mothercare and consumer products giant procter & gamble. andrew beh, of brokers ing, said ups and deutsche post were the most likely bidders and an offer of 950p a share would be fair if a bidding battle did not break out. "it's a great strategic fit for both companies," he said. "both are interested in expanding in logistics and you can make a decent case for cost synergies which could justify the premium and that's before you make any argument about revenue synergies." aviator 'creator' in oscars snub  the man who said he got oscar-nominated movie the aviator off the ground and signed up leonardo dicaprio has been shut out of the academy awards race.  charles evans jr battled over his role with the people who eventually made the film, and won a producer's credit. but he is not on the list of producers who can win a best film oscar due to a limit on the number of nominees. the oscars organisers have picked two of the aviator's four producers to be nominated for best film.  up to three producers can be named per film but the studios behind the aviator and million dollar baby failed to trim their credits - so the academy of motion pictures arts and sciences (ampas) has done it for them. the aviator's nominated producers are michael mann and graham king - with mr evans and sandy climan, mr mann's former deputy, left off. mr evans sued mr mann in 2001, claiming he came up with the idea, spent years developing it and persuaded dicaprio to play hughes - but said he was later excluded from the project. the two sides settled out of court in a deal that has remained secret apart from the fact mr evans' name has appeared as a producer when the film's credits roll. at the golden globes, mr evans - who was named among the winners when the film won best drama film - evaded a security guard to have his photo taken with dicaprio, director martin scorsese, mr mann and mr king.  ampas decided to limit the number of producers who could be nominated after shakespeare in love's victory in 1999 saw five producers collect awards. the eligible names for the aviator and million dollar baby were decided by ampas' producers branch executive committee on wednesday. the decision also saw clint eastwood get his third personal nomination for million dollar baby. he is now named in the best film category as well as being nominated for best director and best lead actor. the academy awards ceremony will be held in hollywood on 27 february. chinese actress ziyi zhang, star of crouching tiger, hidden dragon, hero and house of flying daggers, is the latest name to be added to the list of presenters on the night. labour's 'eu propaganda'  a "taxpayer subsidised propaganda exercise" on the eu is being used to lull the british public into a false sense of security, say the tories.  shadow foreign secretary michael ancram told mps a new white paper was part of trying to soften up opinion ahead of the referendum on the eu constitution. his claims were denied by foreign secretary jack straw, who accused the tories of "running scared" of debate. eu cooperation would help get better uk immigration controls, he argued.  mr straw used thursday's commons debate to launch the new white paper on the prospects for the eu in 2005. security, stability and prosperity would be the key themes when the uk took over the chairmanship of the eu in july, said mr straw. africa and climate change would also feature highly. he said the uk was trying to ensure future eu budgets were limited to 1% of europe's economic output and were spent "where it adds most value". mr straw promised to continue to ensure the uk's budget rebate, secured in 1984 by margaret thatcher, was "fully justified". "we, like all other countries, have a veto on any changes proposed in this area," he said.  mr ancram condemned the document, which the foreign office says has cost about £2,500 to design, print and deliver. "isn't the reason that the government is now involved in a taxpayer subsidised propaganda exercise to try to sell the new eu to the country in advance of the forthcoming referendum and general election?," he asked. the tory spokesman also criticised the government for claiming the eu constitution would make europe easier to understand. "the government, last week, had to publish a commentary of 500 pages to try and explain this 'easy and simple' constitution to the british people," he said. "who are they trying to kid?" the proposed question for the constitution referendum is: "should the united kingdom approve the treaty establishing a constitution for the european union?" the electoral commission on thursday said it was satisfied the question was easy to understand. the government has suggested the referendum on the constitution could take place in spring 2006, with the tories set to campaign for a "no" vote.  mr ancram said ministers were prolonging uncertainty by putting the vote off until the latest date possible. the foreign secretary hit back by saying tory attitudes to europe had helped keep the party out of power for more than a decade. mr straw argued cooperation with european partners could bring a "level playing field" on immigration and asylum controls. "you are setting your face against all of these things," he added. for the liberal democrats, sir menzies campbell said the uk should not ignore the need to reform the eu common agricultural policy. change was particularly important for developing countries wanting access to markets, he argued. sir menzies was among those worried about plans, backed by the uk, to lift the arms embargo imposed on china after the tiananmen square massacre. mr straw said no decisions had been taken - chinese human rights had improved but not by enough. greek duo cleared in doping case  sprinters kostas kenteris and katerina thanou have been cleared of doping offences by an independent tribunal.  the duo had been provisionally suspended by the iaaf for allegedly missing three drugs tests, including one on the eve of the athens olympics. but the greek athletics federation tribunal has overturned the bans - a decision which the iaaf can now contest at the court of arbitration for sport. the pair's former coach, christos tzekos, has been banned for four years. kenteris, 31, and thanou, 30, had been charged with avoiding drug tests in tel aviv, chicago and athens and failing to notify anti-doping officials of their whereabouts before the olympics. they withdrew from the olympics after missing a drugs test at the olympic village on 12 august.  the pair then spent four days in a hospital, claiming they had been injured in a motorcycle crash. it was the international olympic committee's demand that the iaaf investigate the affair that led to the hearing of the greek tribunal. the head of that tribunal, kostas panagopoulos, said it had not been proven that the athletes refused to take the test in athens. "the charge cannot be substantiated," he said. "in no way was he (kenteris) informed to appear for a doping test. the same goes for thanou." kenteris's lawyer, gregory ioannidis, said: "the decision means mr kenteris has been exonerated of highly damaging and unfounded charges which have been extremely harmful for his career.  "he has consistently maintained his innocence and this was substantiated by further evidence we were able to submit to the tribunal following its deliberations in january. "this evidence shows mr kenteris was never asked to submit to a test by the international olympic committee so he could not possibly have been guilty of deliberately avoiding one. it shows he has no case to answer. "mr kenteris should now be given the opportunity he deserves to rebuild his career in the full knowledge that there is no stain on his character. "he has suffered greatly throughout this ordeal that has exposed both himself and his family to enormous pressures." but the iaaf said it was "very surprised" by the verdict. spokesman nick davies said: "we note the decision of the greek authorities with interest. "our doping review board will now consider the english version of the decision." games firms 'face tough future'  uk video game firms face a testing time as they prepare for the next round of games consoles, the industry warns.  fred hasson, head of tiga, which represents independent developers, said that more uk firms would go under due to greater risks in making new titles. three leading uk video game companies also predicted that more firms would close as they struggled to adapt. microsoft, sony and nintendo are expected to release new consoles in the next 18 months. microsoft has said repeatedly that it wants to be first to the market and some analysts predict that xbox 2 will be released in the us before the end of 2005.  the new machines will all have much greater processing and graphical power which will have a huge impact on development of next generation games. mr hasson said: "in the last four years we have probably lost a third of independent developers." he said there were about 150 independent developers left in the industry and more were likely to close. "once the cull has finished its likely to present those still standing with great opportunities," he said.  mr hasson said the industry was predicting that developments costs and teams were likely to need to double in order to cope with the demands of the new machines. that figure was endorsed by three independent companies contacted by the bbc news website - codemasters, climax and rebellion.  "as consoles get more powerful, the content gets more detailed and that means more cost," said gary dunn, development director at codemasters, which develops games in house and also publishes titles. jason kingsley, chief executive of rebellion, said the transition from the current generation of consoles to the new machines was difficult because "the production quality expected by consumers will be that much bigger". he added: "we have been through five technology transitions and survived so far. "each one has involved the death of some people. all companies said they were investing in new tools - called middleware - in order to try and avoid staff numbers spiralling out of control.  simon gardner, president of climax's action studio, said: "we are investing in superior tools and editors. we are investing upfront to generate this content without the need for huge teams. "it's vital we avoid huge teams." he said climax was already directing about 20% of its resources to preparation for next generation titles. mr dunn warned that companies could face a short supply of programming, development and artistic talent. "if companies are hiring bigger and bigger teams, at some point the talent is going to run out." mr hasson said games developers were beginning to realise that they had to be more "business-like". "there are still some developers who were involved in games from the bedroom coding days. "some of them are still making games for peer group approval - that has to stop." yukos accused of lying to court  russian oil firm yukos lied to a us court in an attempt to stop the russian government selling off its key production unit, the court has heard.  the unit, yugansk, was sold to pay off a $27.5bn (£14.5bn) back tax bill. yukos argued that since it had a us subsidiary and local bank accounts, the us court could declare it bankrupt and stop the auction of yugansk. but deutsche bank - itself a target of a yukos lawsuit - said documents had been backdated to strengthen the case.  deutsche bank's evidence came on the first day of a two-day hearing in houston. its lawyer, hugh ray, told the court that yukos had claimed it had transferred $27m into two texas bank accounts opened by its new us subsidiary. by doing so, he said, the firm had intended to reinforce its us presence - and thus its chances of getting its case heard in us courts. but he said that the papers documenting the transaction were not drawn up till weeks after yukos made its bankruptcy application on 14 december, and then backdated.  yukos chief financial officer bruce misamore, who had moved to the us in early december to set up yukos usa, acknowledged the point. he said the discrepancy was only in the paperwork, but that money had indeed been transferred on 14 december. even so, he told the court that only $480,000 had been in the accounts that day, with the rest arriving a day later.  deutsche bank is involved in the case because it is itself being sued by yukos. it had agreed to loan to an arm of russian state gas firm gazprom the money to bid for yuganskneftegaz, as the yukos unit is formally known. the sale went ahead, despite an order from the us bankruptcy court ordered that it should be stopped. in the end, the auction was won by an unknown shell company for $9.4bn - much less than most assessments of its value - before ending up in the hands of state-controlled oil firm rosneft. rosneft, meanwhile, has agreed to merge with gazprom, bringing a large chunk of russia's very profitable oil business back under state control.  yukos maintains that it filed for bankruptcy in the us because it feared it would not be able to do so in russia. it also said that in the event of going bust, it could offer the chance of restructuring. "it gives us a kind of life after death alternative," said yukos chief executive steven theede. yukos is currently suing four companies - gazprom, its unit gazpromneft, rosneft and the shell company which won the bidding - for their part in yugansk's disposal. it has also threatened to sue the russian government for $28bn. analysts have questioned whether a us court has any jurisdiction over russian companies, while moscow officials have dismissed yukos' legal wrangling as meaningless. yukos claims that the rights of its shareholders have been ignored and that is has been punished for the political ambitions of its founder mikhail khodorkovsky. mr khodorkovsky, once russia's richest man, is in prison, having been charged with fraud and tax evasion and repeatedly denied bail. cage film's third week at us top  nicolas cage movie national treasure has topped the us and canada box office for the third week in a row.  national treasure made $17.1m (£8.8m) in ticket sales from friday to sunday, according to studio estimates, taking its total to $110.2m (£56.7m). comedy christmas with the kranks, starring tim allen and jamie lee curtis, was in second place. the polar express entered in third place while jude law film closer made its debut at number six.  oliver stone's big-budget epic alexander, starring colin farrell, followed last week's disappointing sixth-place opening with a slump to seventh place and takings of $4.7m (£2.4m). critics have savaged the three-hour epic, which reportedly cost $150m (£77m) to make. national treasure, which sees cage's character ben gates chase a hidden fortune, has been made by disney studios. it is cage's fourth collaboration with jerry bruckheimer, who is usually noted for his male-orientated action films. hague 'given up' his pm ambition  former conservative leader william hague says he will not stand for the leadership again, having given up his ambition to be prime minister.  mr hague, 43, told the daily telegraph he would now find a life dominated by politics too "boring" and unfulfilling. mr hague, who stepped down after his party's 2001 election defeat, does not rule out a return to the front bench. he also told the paper he hopes to remain mp for richmond, north yorks, and start a family with wife ffion. mr hague, who recently had published the biography of william pitt the younger, also said he wanted to continue writing books and speech-writing.  he told the newspaper: "i don't know whether i will ever go back on to the front, but don't rush me." asked if he would stand for the leadership again, mr hague replied: "no. definitely not." his determination to stay away from a central role will disappoint some senior conservative members, who say the party needs him. tim collins, the shadow education secretary, said last week it would be a "huge boost" to the party if mr hague returned to the front bench. mr hague became an mp at 27 and leader of the opposition at 36. he said: "i feel fortunate that, by the age of 40, i had crammed in an entire political career. "i had been in the cabinet and been leader of the party, so now i can branch out into other things...it is a very liberating feeling." mr hague added that he may have misjudged his own ambition to be prime minister. "maybe i wasn't as driven by politics as i thought i was," he said. johnson too strong for gb runners  britain's kathy butler and hayley yelling were no match for benita johnson in the 51st cross international zornotza in amorebieta, spain.  butler and yelling finished fourth and fifth as australian world champion johnson romped to a five-second victory in the 6km race ahead of edith masai. masai's fellow kenyan alice timbilil finished third. johnson said: "i ran comfortably for the first 3km and then i tried to leave the others but it wasn't an easy task." butler clocked a time of 22 minutes 45 seconds - 22secs behind the winner but four ahead of yelling, who last month succeeded paula radcliffe as european champion. johnson, will be one of the star attractions at the great edinburghinternational cross country on 15 january. microsoft makes anti-piracy move  microsoft says it is clamping down on people running pirated versions of its windows operating system by restricting their access to security features.  the windows genuine advantage scheme means people will have to prove their software is genuine from mid-2005. it will still allow those with unauthorised copies to get some crucial security fixes via automatic updates, but their options would be "limited". microsoft releases regular security updates to its software to protect pcs. either pcs detect updates automatically or users manually download fixes through microsoft's site. those running pirated windows programs would not have access to other downloads and "add-ons" that the software giant offers.  people who try to manually download security patches will have to let microsoft run an automated checking procedure on their computer or give an identification number.  microsoft's regular patches which it releases for newly-found security flaws are important because they stop worms, viruses and other threats penetrating pcs. some security experts are concerned that restricting access to such patches could mean a rise in such attacks and threats, with more pcs left unprotected. but graham cluley, senior consultant at security firm sophos, told the bbc news website that it was a positive decision. "it sounds like their decision to allow critical security patches to remain available to both legitimate and illegitimate users of windows is good news for everyone who uses the net," he said. windows genuine advantage was first introduced as a pilot scheme in september 2004 for english-language versions of windows.  microsoft's windows operating system is heavily exploited by virus writers because it is so widespread and they are constantly seeking out new security loopholes to take advantage of. the company is trying to tackle security threats whilst cracking down on pirated software at the same time. software piracy has cost the company billions, it says. the company announced earlier in january that it was releasing security tools to clean up pcs harbouring viruses and spyware, which 90% of pcs are infected with. the virus-fighting program, updated monthly, is a precursor to microsoft's dedicated anti-virus software. last year it introduced the windows xp counterfeit project, a uk-based pilot scheme, which ran from november to december. the scheme meant that anyone with pre-installed copies of the operating system in pcs bought before november could replace counterfeit versions of windows xp with legal ones for free. it is also increasing efforts to squash software piracy in china, norway and the czech republic, where pirated software is a huge problem, by offering discounts on legitimate software to users of pirated copies windows. "china in particular is a problem, with piracy estimated at 92%," said mr cluley. mexican in us send $16bn home  mexican labourers living in the us sent a record $16.6bn (£8.82bn) home last year.  the bank of mexico said that remittances grew 24% last year and now represent the country's second-biggest source of income after oil. better records and greater prosperity of mexican expatriates in the us are the main reasons behind the increase. about 10 million mexicans live in the us, where there are 16 million citizens of mexican origin. remittances now represent more than 2% of the country's gdp, according to the bank of mexico's figures. last year, there were 50.9 million transactions, with an average value of $327 per remittance, the bank said. according to standard & poor's, which has recently upgraded mexico's sovereign debt rating, the rise in remittances helps protect the mexican economy against a potential fall in the international oil prices.  the growth in remittances has sparked fierce competition between banks. bank of america announced last week that it planned to eliminate transfer fees for some customers. remittance charges are estimated to have dropped by between 50 and 60%, reports from the us treasury and the inter-american development bank have said. the inter-american development bank estimates that remittances to latin america and the caribbean reached $45bn in 2004. oscar nominees gear up for lunch  leonardo dicaprio, jamie foxx and hilary swank are among those due to attend this year's oscar nominees luncheon on monday.  they will join more than 100 nominees from the 24 oscar categories at the annual event, which will take place at the beverly hilton hotel, los angeles. british hopefuls, including kate winslet, imelda staunton and sophie okonedo are also expected to attend. this year's oscar ceremony will be held on sunday 27 february.  martin scorsese's the aviator is leading the field at this year's oscars with 11 nominations, while other multiple nominees include million dollar baby and sideways. oscar nominees swank and foxx were among the winners at the screen actors guild awards at the weekend, one of the many ceremonies held in the run-up to the oscars. swank won best actress for million dollar baby while foxx triumphed for his performance as ray charles in the biopic ray. sideways was also among the winners, taking the prize for best cast performance. the next major film award ceremony of the season is the bafta awards, which take place at london's odeon leicester square on 12 february. many of those nominated for oscars including dicaprio, foxx and staunton - an oscar nominee for her performance in vera drake - have also been nominated for baftas. job cuts 'false economy'  - tuc  plans to shed 71,000 civil service jobs will prove to be a "false economy" that could hamper public sector reforms, according to a tuc report.  public and commercial services union members have already voted to strike over cuts for one day on 5 november. the tuc said cuts would deliver less than 6% of the £22bn ministers hope to save through efficiency reforms. general secretary brendan barber warned the "costs could easily outweigh the benefits". "the government's big boost to public spending is now showing results," said mr barber. "public services are improving but looking for simple savings through job cuts at this stage could be a false economy.  "they may shoot a tory fox, but cutting thousands of civil service jobs will hit the morale and capabilities of the public servants expected to implement government reforms. the costs could easily outweigh the benefits." next friday's strike action by the pcs is the biggest in the civil service since 1993, hitting jobcentres, benefit agencies, pensions offices, customs and driving tests. the union says it is concerned about pensions, sick pay and forced relocation as well as the cut in jobs. last month it was announced that a total of 37 social security offices and jobcentres across the uk would close in the first wave of plans to shed civil service jobs. the number of civil servants in britain rose to more than 520,000 in april. other areas the strike will affect include passports, museums and galleries, libraries and health and safety inspections. holmes starts 2005 with gb events  kelly holmes will start 2005 with a series of races in britain.  holmes will make her first track appearance on home soil since winning double olympic gold in january's norwich union international in glasgow. she will also run in the grand prix in birmingham in february and may defend her indoor aaa 800m title in sheffield earlier that month. "i am still competitive and still want to win," she said. "i'm an athlete and i can't wait to get back on the track." she added: "these events are also a great opportunity to thank the british public for the enormous levels of support they have given me from the moment i stepped off that plane from greece." the glasgow meeting will see holmes compete over 1500m in a five-way match against sweden, france, russia and italy. nintendo handheld given euro date  nintendo's new handheld console, the ds, will launch in europe on 11 march, the company has announced.  the portable games machine, which features touch-screen control, will retail for £99 in the uk (149 euros). nintendo said 15 games would be available in the uk at launch, with prices ranging from £19 to £29. more than 2.8 million ds consoles have been sold since it first appeared in the us and japan at the end of 2004. rival sony has said it will launch its first handheld console, the psp, in the us and europe before the end of march. the psp is expected to compete for a large part of the same handheld market, despite sony's assertion that the machines are aimed at different consumers.  the 15 games available on the european launch date will include nintendo's super mario 64 ds, as well as titles from third-party developers such as ubisoft's rayman ds.  more than 120 games are in development for the new console, nintendo has said. the ds is backwards compatible with the game boy advance, allowing the earlier machine's back catalogue of 700 games to be played. additionally, a short-range wireless link for multiplayer gaming is built in to the ds, with a "download play" option which allows a group to play against each other, even if just one person owns a copy. other features include a short-range messaging application called pictochat, and a built-in microphone which is used in sega's launch title project rub. nintendo has also announced a media adapter, which will allow the console to play music and video on the move.  the launch price of £99 (149 euros) compares favourably with the us price of $149, according to john houlihan, editor of the computerandvideogames.com magazine. "it's a very, very competitive price point. there are some innovative features, and nintendo has created quite a buzz," he says. "however, the line-up of games could have been stronger. everyone wanted to see the eight-player mario kart ds, for example."  mr houlihan believes that there is likely to be an audience for both the nintendo ds and sony's new psp, with the former aimed largely at a younger audience and the latter expected to be marketed as a multimedia device. "the psp is a sexy bit of kit, but sony's attitude to the psp has been very understated in europe, so far," mr houlihan said. the worldwide handheld software market had an estimated worth of $2.6bn at the end of 2004, according to industry analysts screen digest.  in the past, games consoles and handhelds have generally launched much later in europe than in other parts of the world. however nintendo president satoru iwata said the company was "pleased to have offered such a short period of time between the us and european launch". "europe is an extremely important market for nintendo," mr iwata added. nintendo raised its sales targets for the ds console last december after selling a million in the us and japan in just a few weeks. home loan approvals rising again  the number of mortgages approved in the uk has risen for the first time since may last year, according to lending figures from the bank of england.  new loans in december rose to 83,000, slightly higher than november's nine-year low of 77,000. mortgage lending rose by £7.1bn in december, up from a £6.4bn rise in november. the figures contradict a survey from the british bankers' association, which said approvals were at a five-year low.  analysts say the figures show the market may be stabilising but still point to further house price softness. "the modest rise in mortgage approvals and lending in december reinforces the impression that the housing market is currently slowing steadily rather than sharply," said global insight analyst howard archer, commenting on the boe's figures. the bba believes that the property market is continuing to cool down. changes to mortgage regulation may have artificially depressed figures in november, thus flattering the december figures, analysts said. in october last year, new rules came into force, which meant some lenders were forced to withdraw mortgage products temporarily in november and defer some lending until they had made sure they had complied with the rules properly. separately, the bank of england said that consumer credit rose by £1.5bn in december, more than the £1.4bn expected and above the £1.4bn reported in the previous month. church anger over bollywood film  roman catholic organisations in india have demanded the withdrawal of a film that depicts a priest having an affair with a girl half his age.  indian television channels are now refusing to run the promotional material for the film, sins, ahead of its release on friday. the director of the film, vinod pande, says the movie is not offensive and has refused to withdraw it. catholics are planning a protest in mumbai (bombay) on wednesday. the president of one of mumbai's main catholic organisations, dolphy d'souza, says the portrayal of an ordained priest as a man of loose moral character has hurt the religious sentiments of india's catholic community.  he called the film "pornographic and sensational". mr d'souza, who is also the vice-president of the catholics' national body, has accused the director of the film of portraying a priest in bad light for commercial gains. catholics have urged mr pande to withdraw the film to show respect to the christian community's hurt sentiments. "religion needs to be a personal affair and should not be a subject for entertainment or for commercial use," joseph dias, general secretary of the catholic secular forum, said in a statement.  but mr pande said that if the critics were to see the film they would not protest against it and would not insist on its withdrawal. he says he has no plans to cancel the film ahead of its scheduled screening on friday.  "it's about forbidden love. there was no agenda whatsoever to hurt anyone," he said. the bbc's zubair ahmed in mumbai says that the controversial film shows a priest in steamy scenes with a girl half his age. she apparently goes to him for help but he falls in love with her. it takes place in the picturesque southern indian state of kerala. the film has already been cleared by the censor board with an 'a' (adults only) certificate. mr d'souza says he is shocked at the censor board's decision to clear the film. our correspondent says that india's tv channels have so far refused to be dragged into the controversy and have not screened the film's promotional material. most of the catholic community's anger has come after watching newspaper advertisements and hoardings of the film. christians make up about two per cent of india's population of more than a billion people. uk's 'useless' quangos under fire  the uk has 529 quangos financed with billions of pounds of taxpayers' cash - many of which are useless or duplicate each other's efforts, a report claims.  essential guide to british quangos 2005 author dan lewis said at least 111 of the appointed bodies had been set up since labour won power in 1997. he urged a limit on the number of quangos that could be set up by any individual government department. tories and lib dems welcomed the report and called for a "slimming down".  conservative deregulation spokesman john redwood said: "the research endorses our policy of destroying unwanted and unnecessary quangos, and slimming down the rest.  "a conservative government will axe 162 quangos, as part of its drive for more efficient and more accountable government." lib dem spokesman ed davey meanwhile said instead of the "bonfire of quangos" new labour had promised, there had been an "explosion" of them. "for over two decades, under both tory and labour governments, these unaccountable agencies have mushroomed. "liberal democrats would abolish many, merge others, and make any that remain properly accountable." labour representatives were unavailable for comment. the quango guide follows last year's government-commissioned gershon report which recommended significant cuts in bureaucracy across the public sector.  mr lewis wants a public inquiry into regional development agencies which cost £1.8bn a year - cash he says which "appears to be almost entirely wasted". as well as a departmental limit on quangos he also wants a statutory five-year limit on any such body with executive powers. he also listed what he dubbed the nine "most useless quangos". they were the british potato council, the milk development council, the energy savings trust, agricultural wages committees, the wine standards board, the westminster foundation for democracy, the football licensing authority, investors in people uk and the economic and social research council. mr lewis branded the existence of the 60-employee potato council, set up in 1997 to research and promote overseas potato markets, "surprising". he said the £80m spent annually on the energy savings trust, which promotes renewable energy, would be better spent on eight million boiler jackets for british homes.  and he argued it was "absurd" to charge farmers for agricultural wages committees, which set working and wage standards in the industry, when many were prepared to take advantage of immigrant labour prepared to work for £1 an hour. "if a football team can afford to pay £27m for wayne rooney, why should the taxpayer - not all of whom like football - be forced to fund the football licensing authority to the tune of over £1.1m a year?" mr lewis asked. the report is published by the efficiency in government unit - a joint effort by right of centre think tanks the economic research council and the centre for policy studies. it says before a new public body is set up, an assessment should be made whether its proposed role is already carried out by an existing charity or other private organisation. tulu to appear at caledonian run  two-time olympic 10,000 metres champion derartu tulu has confirmed she will take part in the bupa great caledonian run in edinburgh on 8 may.  the 32-year-old ethiopian is the first star name to enter the event. tulu has won the boston, london and tokyo marathons, as well as the world 10,000m title in 2001. "we are delighted to have secured the services of one the most decorated competitors the sport has ever seen," said race director matthew turnbull. "her record speaks for herself and there are few other women distance runners who would dare compare their pedigree with tulu's," he added. "she might be 33 next month, but that didn't stop her winning the olympic 10,000m bronze medal last summer. she's an ultra-consistent championships racer." smart search lets art fans browse  if you don't know art but know what you like, new search technology could prove a useful gateway to painting.  artgarden, developed by bt's research unit, is being tested by the tate as a new way of browsing its online collection of paintings. rather than search by the name of an artist or painting, users are shown a selection of pictures. clicking on their favourite will change the gallery in front of them to a selection of similar works.  the technology uses a system dubbed smart serendipity, which is a combination of artificial intelligence and random selection. it 'chooses' a selection of pictures, by scoring paintings based on a selection of keywords associated with them. so, for instance a whistler painting of a bridge may have the obvious keywords such as bridge and whistler associated to it but will also widen the search net with terms such as aesthetic movement, 19th century and water. a variety of paintings will then be shown to the user, based partly on the keywords and partly on luck. "it is much more akin to wandering through the gallery," said jemima rellie, head of the tate's digital programme. for richard tateson, who worked on the artgarden project, the need for a new way to search grew out of personal frustration. "i went to an online clothes store to find something to buy my wife for christmas but i didn't have a clue what i wanted," he said. the text-based search was restricted to looking either by type of garment or designer, neither of which he found helpful. he ended up doing his present shopping on the high street instead.  he thinks the dominance of text-based searching is not necessarily appealing to the majority of online shoppers. similarly, with art, browsing is often more important than finding a particular object. "you don't arrive at tate britain and tell people what you want to see. one of the skills of showing off the collection is to introduce people to things they wouldn't have asked for," he said. the tate is committed to making its art more accessible and technology such as artgarden can help with that, said ms rellie. she hopes the technology can be incorporated on to the website in the near future. bt research is looking at extending the technology to other searching, such as for music and films. manufacturing recovery 'slowing'  uk manufacturing grew at its slowest pace in one-and-a-half years in january, according to a survey.  the chartered institute of purchasing and supply (cips) said its purchasing manager index (pmi) fell to 51.8 from a revised 53.3 in december. but, despite missing forecasts of 53.7, the pmi number remained above 50 - indicating expansion in the sector. the cips said that the strong pound had dented exports while rising oil and metals prices had kept costs high.  the survey added that rising input prices and cooling demand had deterred factory managers from hiring new workers in an effort to cut costs. that triggered the second successive monthly fall in the cips employment index to 48.3 - its lowest level since june 2003. the survey is more upbeat than official figures - which suggest that manufacturing is in recession - but analysts said the survey did suggest that the manufacturing recovery was running out of steam. "it appears that the uk is in a two-tier economy again," said prebon yamane economist lena komileva. "you have weakness in manufacturing, which i think would concern policymakers at the bank of england." bookmakers back aviator for oscar  the aviator has been tipped by uk bookmakers as the favourite to win the best film award at this year's oscars.  ray star jamie foxx is clear favourite in the best actor category while million dollar baby's hilary swank is tipped to win the best actress prize. bookmakers predict cate blanchett will be named best supporting actress. william hill and ladbrokes have given the aviator 4/9 and 8/13 odds of winning best film, with million dollar baby in second place at 9/4.  bet direct and bet 365 also tip the aviator, with the majority of bookmakers regarding finding neverland as the outsider. the aviator is also widely tipped to win the best director prize for martin scorsese. british star clive owen is second favourite at william hill to take the best supporting actor award, for his performance in closer. the favourite in that category is sideways star thomas hayden church. vera drake star imelda staunton has 5/1 odds of winning the best actress oscar at bet 365 and william hill, ahead of fellow uk star kate winslet who has odds of 25/1 at william hill.  mike leigh is the outsider in the best director category for vera drake, a position he holds jointly with ray's taylor hackford at bookmakers vc bet. this year's academy awards will be handed out in hollywood on 27 february. x factor judge sharon osbourne will present sky television's live coverage of the event. meanwhile, clive owen's best supporting actor nomination has led a bookmaker to shorten his odds of becoming the next james bond. he has moved from 4/1 to 5/2 favourite to play 007, with hugh jackman and ewan mcgregor joint second favourite. "clive owen's nomination has sparked a betting frenzy from james bond fans, who feel that his heightened global recognition will have done his chances of becoming the next bond a world of good," said william hill spokesman rupert adams. howard backs stem cell research  michael howard has backed stem cell research, saying it is important people are not frightened of the future.  the controversial issue was a feature of the recent us presidential election, where george bush opposed extending it. but the tory leader argued there was a moral case for embracing science which could help victims of alzheimer's, parkinson's and motor neurone disease. "i believe we have a duty to offer hope to the millions of people who suffer devastating illnesses," he said. the use of embryonic stem cells in the uk is already allowed. stem cells are master cells that have the ability to develop into any of the body's tissue types. scientists hope that by growing such cells in the laboratory they can programme them to form specific tissue such as kidney, heart or even brain tissue.  mr howard acknowledged there were genuine concerns about stem cell research. but he argued: "we mustn't be frightened of change or nostalgic about the past - we must be optimistic about the future. "politicians must create the right framework so that the great potential of science can be harnessed for the benefit of mankind. "with the life expectancy of the average briton now around the mid-70s, society has a responsibility to enhance the quality of people's lives as they grow older. "i know many people are concerned about stem-cell research. they are fearful of meddling with what they see as the stuff of souls. "i respect those concerns. but i also believe we have a duty to offer hope to the millions of people who suffer devastating illnesses like parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, motor neurone disease, alzheimer's and - as we saw in the papers today - now possibly heart problems."  mr howard acknowledged there were "no easy answers" over such an issue but it was necessary to "have the courage to do what we know to be morally right". he added: "of course, stem cells are still a recent discovery. more research needs to be done. but we must look at their potential in a responsible and grown-up way. the hopes of millions of people rest on what could be achieved." former superman actor the late christopher reeve was an advocate for the research after he was paralysed in a horse riding accident. mr howard made his remarks during a speech in westminster to the conservative national women's committee on ambitions and values. disappointed scott in solid start  allan scott is confident of winning a medal at next week's european indoor championships after a solid debut on the international circuit.  the 22-year-old scot finished fourth in the 60m hurdles at the jose m cagigal memorial meeting in madrid. "it was definitely a learning curve and i certainly haven't ruled out challenging for a medal next week," said the east kilbride athlete. the race was won by felipe vivancos, who equalled the spanish record.  sweden's robert kronberg was second, with haiti's dudley dorival in third. scott was slightly disappointed with his run in the final. he won his heat in 7.64secs but ran 0.04secs slower in his first iaaf indoor grand prix circuit final. "i should have done better than that," he said. "i felt i could have won it. i got a poor start - but i still felt i should have ran faster." vivancos slashed his personal best to equal the spanish record with a time of 7.60secs while kronberg and dorival clocked 7.62secs and 7.63secs respectively. warning over windows word files  writing a microsoft word document can be a dangerous business, according to document security firm workshare.  up to 75% of all business documents contained sensitive information most firms would not want exposed, a survey by the firm revealed. to make matters worse 90% of those companies questioned had no idea that confidential information was leaking. the report warns firms to do a better job of policing documents as corporate compliance becomes more binding.  sensitive information inadvertently leaked in documents includes confidential contractual terms, competitive information that rivals would be keen to see and special deals for key customers, said andrew pearson, european boss of workshare which commissioned the research. "the efficiencies the internet has brought in such as instant access to information have also created security and control issues too," he said. the problem is particularly acute with documents prepared using microsoft word because of the way it maintains hidden records about editing changes. as documents get passed around, worked on and amended by different staff members the sensitive information finds its way into documents. poor control over the editing and amending process can mean that information that should be expunged survives final edits. microsoft, however, does provide an add-on tool for windows pcs that fixes the problem. "the remove hidden data add-in is a tool that you can use to remove personal or hidden data that might not be immediately apparent when you view the document in your microsoft office application," says the instructions on microsoft's website. microsoft recommends that the tool is used before people publish any word document. a tool for apple machines running word is not available. workshare surveyed firms around the world and found that, on average, 31% of documents contained legally sensitive information but in many firms up to three-quarters fell in to the high risk category. often, said mr pearson, this sensitive information was invisible because it got deleted and changed as different drafts were prepared.  however, the way that windows works means that earlier versions can be recalled and reconstructed by those keen to see how a document has evolved. few firms have any knowledge of the existence of this so-called metadata about the changes that a document has gone through or that it can be reconstructed. the discovery of this hidden information could prove embarrassing for companies if, for instance, those tendering for contracts found out about the changes to terms of a deal being negotiated. the research revealed that a document's metadata could be substantial as, on average, only 40% of contributors' changes to a document make it to the final draft. problems with documents could mean trouble for firms as regulatory bodies step up scrutiny and compliance laws start to bite, said mr pearson. worldcom boss 'left books alone'  former worldcom boss bernie ebbers, who is accused of overseeing an $11bn (£5.8bn) fraud, never made accounting decisions, a witness has told jurors.  david myers made the comments under questioning by defence lawyers who have been arguing that mr ebbers was not responsible for worldcom's problems. the phone company collapsed in 2002 and prosecutors claim that losses were hidden to protect the firm's shares. mr myers has already pleaded guilty to fraud and is assisting prosecutors.  on monday, defence lawyer reid weingarten tried to distance his client from the allegations. during cross examination, he asked mr myers if he ever knew mr ebbers "make an accounting decision?". "not that i am aware of," mr myers replied. "did you ever know mr ebbers to make an accounting entry into worldcom books?" mr weingarten pressed. "no," replied the witness. mr myers has admitted that he ordered false accounting entries at the request of former worldcom chief financial officer scott sullivan. defence lawyers have been trying to paint mr sullivan, who has admitted fraud and will testify later in the trial, as the mastermind behind worldcom's accounting house of cards.  mr ebbers' team, meanwhile, are looking to portray him as an affable boss, who by his own admission is more pe graduate than economist. whatever his abilities, mr ebbers transformed worldcom from a relative unknown into a $160bn telecoms giant and investor darling of the late 1990s. worldcom's problems mounted, however, as competition increased and the telecoms boom petered out. when the firm finally collapsed, shareholders lost about $180bn and 20,000 workers lost their jobs. mr ebbers' trial is expected to last two months and if found guilty the former ceo faces a substantial jail sentence. he has firmly declared his innocence. global release for japan hit film  oscar-winning animator hayao miyazaki's latest film, howl's moving castle, is to be released in 50 countries around the world, its distributor has said.  howl's moving castle set a japanese box office record last week, taking 1.5bn yen (£7.7m) in its first two days. miyazaki won an oscar earlier this year for spirited away, japan's first academy award for nearly 50 years. howl's moving castle is based on a children's fantasy novel by uk author diana wynne jones. it tells the story of an 18-year-old woman who ages dramatically after falling under a witch's spell. she heads to a moving castle kept by howl, a wizard, and searches for a way to become normal again. a spokesman for distributor toho said the film "has received strong interest from domestic audiences and foreign media and viewers alike". "we have a good feeling about this film. we saw very good viewer response," he added. the film's worldwide release will start in south korea on 24 december, and france on 12 january. howard unveils tory asylum plans  tory plans to cut immigration to the uk are not racist and will make the asylum system fairer for genuine refugees, michael howard has said.  as his party set out detailed asylum reform plans, mr howard said they would help smash people smuggling gangs. there would be an annual limit on asylum and all claims would be processed overseas. some charities say the plans would put refugees' lives at risk if they were turned away once quotas were filled.  tony blair said labour would set out workable plans for tackling immigration abuse in the next few weeks and attacked the tory plans. "by cutting the number of front-line immigration staff at our borders, they will actually make the problem worse," said mr blair. liberal democrat chairman matthew taylor said there needed to be a quick, fair and firm asylum system. but he said it was "absolutely disgusting" to propose a system which could turn away genuine refugees. the conservatives say there is little risk of this happening as demand for asylum will be considered when quotas are set.  in a speech in london on monday, mr howard said: "it's not racist, as some people to claim, to talk about controlling immigration far from it." he said that coming from an immigrant family himself he recognised that "firm but fair" immigration controls were essential for good community relations.    - withdrawing from the 1951 united nations convention on refugees, which obliges countries to accept people being persecuted on the basis of need, not numbers   - introduce laws to allow the immediate removal of asylum seekers whose claims were clearly unfounded because they came from safe countries or had destroyed documents   - detain asylum seekers without documents so people whose identity was not known were not able to move freely around the uk - a worry for "national security"   - stop considering asylum applications inside the uk and instead take people from united nations refugee agency camps. anyone applying for asylum would be taken to new centres close to their countries of origin.     the tories also want quotas for those seeking work permits through an australian-style points system and those wanting to join families in the uk.  mr howard said nearly 160,000 people were settling in the uk every year - the size of a city like peterborough. the plans would help achieve a "substantial reduction" in immigration, he said, although he could not predict a figure. he said that only two out of 10 asylum seekers had their claims accepted under the current "unfair and inhumane" system.  "we need to break the link between arriving in britain and claiming asylum," mr howard said. "by breaking that link we can smash the criminal gangs at the heart of the trade in people smuggling."  but the un refugees agency is worried the policy sends the wrong message to poorer countries which receive the bulk of refugees. and a spokesman for european justice and home affairs commissioner franco frattini said the plans would contravene eu asylum policy, which meant the uk could not simply refuse to hear an asylum case. refugee council chief executive maeve sherlock called the plans "dangerous, ill thought-out and hugely irresponsible". lives could be put at risk if refugees were turned away once the quotas were filled, she warned. commission for racial equality chairman trevor phillips said asylum applications were down 40% and economic migration down about 10%.  he did not think mr howard intended to centre the debate about race. but he warned that some campaigners could use his words to hint the policy was about keeping out people of a different colour or culture. mr howard called that suggestion "disgraceful". gb quartet get cross country call  four british athletes have been pre-selected to compete at the world cross country championships in march after impressive starts to the season.  hayley yelling, jo pavey, karl keska and adam hickey will represent team gb at the event in france. yelling clinched the women's european cross country title last month and pavey followed up with bronze. keska helped the men's team to overall third place while hickey finished in 10th place on his junior debut. "winning the european cross country title meant so much to me," said yelling. "and being pre-selected for the worlds means that i can focus on preparing in the best way possible." the 32-year-old will race alongside olympic 5,000m finalist pavey in the women's 8km race on 19 march. keska, who has made a successful return from a long-term injury lay-off, contests the men's 12km race on 20 march, while 16-year-old hickey goes in the junior men's 8km on the same day. the rest of the team will be named after the trials at wollaton park in nottingham, which take place on 5 march. net regulation 'still possible'  the blurring of boundaries between tv and the internet raises questions of regulation, watchdog ofcom has said.  content on tv and the internet is set to move closer this year as tv-quality video online becomes a norm. at a debate in westminster, the net industry considered the options. lord currie, chairman of super-regulator ofcom, told the panel that protecting audiences would always have to be a primary concern for the watchdog. despite having no remit for the regulation of net content, disquiet has increased among internet service providers as speeches made by ofcom in recent months hinted that regulation might be an option. at the debate, organised by the internet service providers' association (ispa), lord currie did not rule out the possibility of regulation.  "the challenge will arise when boundaries between tv and the internet truly blur and then there is a balance to be struck between protecting consumers and allowing them to assess the risks themselves," he said. adopting the rules that currently exist to regulate tv content or self-regulation, which is currently the practice of the net industry, will be up for discussion.  some studies suggest that as many as eight million households in the uk could have adopted broadband by the end of 2005, and the technology opens the door to tv content delivered over the net. more and more internet service providers and media companies are streaming video content on the web. bt has already set up an entertainment division to create and distribute content that could come from sources such as bskyb, itv and the bbc. head of the division, andrew burke, spoke about the possibility of creating content for all platforms. "how risque can i be in this new age? with celebrity chefs serving up more expletives than hot dinners, surely i can push it to the limit," he said.  in fact, he said, if content has been requested by consumers and they have gone to lengths to download it, then maybe it should be entirely regulation free. internet service providers have long claimed no responsibility for the content they carry on their servers since the law commission dubbed them "mere conduits" back in 2002. this defence does not apply if they have actual knowledge of illegal content and have failed to remove it. the level of responsibility they have has been tested in several high-profile legal cases. richard ayers, portal director at tiscali, said there was little point trying to regulate the internet because it would be impossible. huge changes are afoot in 2005, he predicted, as companies such as the bbc offer tv content over the net. the bbc's planned interactive media player which will give surfers the chance to download programmes such as eastenders and top gear will make net tv mainstream and raise a whole new set of questions, he said.  one of these will be about the vast sums of money involved in maintaining the network to supply such a huge quantity of data and could herald a new digital licence fee, said mr ayers. as inappropriate net content, most obviously pornography viewed by children, continues to dominate the headlines, internet regulation remains a political issue said mp richard allan, liberal democrat spokesman on it. mr allan thinks that the answer could lie somewhere between the cries of "impossible to regulate" and "just apply offline laws online". in fact, instead of seeing regulation brought online, the future could bring an end to regulation as we know it for all tv content. after lord currie departed, the panel agreed that this could be a reality and that for the internet people power is likely to reign. "if content is on-demand, consumers have pulled it up rather than had pushed to them, then it is the consumers' choice to watch it. there is no watershed on the net," said mr burke. metlife buys up citigroup insurer  us banking giant citigroup has sold its travelers life & annuity insurance arm to metlife for $11.5bn (£6.1bn).  the sale is a further move by citigroup away from its 1990s strategy of offering every financial service - insurance, broking and banking. profit growth in the insurance market has not matched expansion at citigroup's other businesses. for metlife, the us's leading insurance company, the purchase gives it access to a much larger distribution network.  robert benmosche, metlife's chairman and chief executive, said that it was a "great opportunity for the brand of metlife to be distributed through citigroup". under the agreement, metlife will be able to sell its products through citigroup over the next 10 years. the deal includes smith barney retail brokerages and citibank branches. the company will pay between $1bn and $3bn in metlife stock with the rest being made up of cash. travelers had sales of $5.2bn in 2004 and made a profit of $901m. it has total net assets of $96bn. "this deal employs some of metlife's excess capital in a potentially higher-return business and gives it more distribution," said stuart quint, an analyst at gartmore. ocean's twelve raids box office  ocean's twelve, the crime caper sequel starring george clooney, brad pitt and julia roberts, has gone straight to number one in the us box office chart.  it took $40.8m (£21m) in weekend ticket sales, according to studio estimates. the sequel follows the master criminals as they try to pull off three major heists across europe. it knocked last week's number one, national treasure, into third place. wesley snipes' blade: trinity was in second, taking $16.1m (£8.4m). rounding out the top five was animated fable the polar express, starring tom hanks, and festive comedy christmas with the kranks.  ocean's twelve box office triumph marks the fourth-biggest opening for a december release in the us, after the three films in the lord of the rings trilogy. the sequel narrowly beat its 2001 predecessor, ocean's eleven which took $38.1m (£19.8m) on its opening weekend and $184m (£95.8m) in total. a remake of the 1960s film, starring frank sinatra and the rat pack, ocean's eleven was directed by oscar-winning director steven soderbergh. soderbergh returns to direct the hit sequel which reunites clooney, pitt and roberts with matt damon, andy garcia and elliott gould. catherine zeta-jones joins the all-star cast. "it's just a fun, good holiday movie," said dan fellman, president of distribution at warner bros. however, us critics were less complimentary about the $110m (£57.2m) project, with the los angeles times labelling it a "dispiriting vanity project". a milder review in the new york times dubbed the sequel "unabashedly trivial". campaign 'cold calls' questioned  labour and the conservatives are still telephoning the millions of people who have signed up to make sure they do not get marketing "cold calls".  the parties say they can stick to the rules by ensuring that their calls are not marketing - for instance by asking about people's voting intentions. the lib dems are asking the watchdog overseeing the rules to stop the calls. the information commissioner's office says surveys are allowed but there is a "grey" area if personal data is kept. telephone call centres are expected to be used as never before by all the three major parties in the run-up to the general election.  but seven million telephone numbers are on the telephone preference service (tps) lists, which ban unsolicited sales and marketing calls. both schemes are run by the direct marketing association and backed by eu directives on privacy and electronic communications.  the rules on marketing calls apply as much to politicians as to private sector companies. but that does not mean labour and the tories are not calling people signed up to the tps. a labour party spokesman told the bbc news website the party avoided those on tps lists when telephoning people about membership or fundraising. but that did not happen for "voter identification" calls. "when we ask which party they will vote for, that is not marketing and we have very clear legal advice that it is not," he said. "so it is not covered by the telephone preference service."  he said the party always asked people if they would be happy to be contacted again and if they said no, they were not rung again. a conservative spokeswoman said the party stuck to the rules when it rang tps subscribers. she said: "we do apply tps but in line with the law. we would not do things that are not allowed in the law." a spokesman for the information commissioner's office said it would be classed as marketing if political parties telephoned people to encourage them to vote for them. but the rules did allow polling organisations to telephone people about their voting intentions if they recorded them only as part of a bigger set of statistics, not person by person. "if a political party was doing that than it may be that also would not be marketing," he said.  the spokesman said it might be considered unsolicited marketing if a party recorded voting preferences with a view to marketing information in the future. the spokesman said there was "no yes or no" answer and the area was "pretty grey". he added: "if someone complained, then we would investigate that. political parties are aware of the regulations. at the last by-elections, we reminded them." lib dem chairman matthew taylor has now written to the watchdog saying: "the advice we have received on several previous occasions is that such phone calls are illegal." he says evidence from local lib dem parties around the country suggests there are "significant" numbers of such calls. "i hope you can therefore take swift and efficient action to ensure that this ceases," he tells the commissioner. mr taylor argues there should be new guidelines so all parties can act in the same way if the watchdog believes the rules allow parties to ring tps numbers about voting intentions and later urge those people to vote for them. jones files lawsuit against conte  marion jones has filed a lawsuit for defamation against balco boss victor conte following his allegations that he gave her performance-enhancing drugs.  the sydney olympic gold medallist says conte damaged her reputation and she is seeking $25m (£13m) in the suit. conte, whose company is at the centre of a doping investigation, made the claims in a us television programme. he and three others were indicted in february by a federal grand jury for a variety of alleged offences. in an email to the associated press on wednesday, conte said: "i stand by everything i said". jones won three gold medals and two bronzes in sydney in 2000. her lawsuit, filed in the us district court in san francisco, said the sprinter had passed a lie detector test and that she "has never taken banned performance-enhancing drugs". conte's statements, the suit added, were "false and malicious". after the abc television program earlier this month, jones' lawyer richard nicholls said: "marion has steadfastly maintained her position throughout: she has never, ever used performance-enhancing drugs. "victor conte is a man facing a 42-count federal indictment, while marion jones is one of america's most decorated female athletes. mr conte's statements have been wildly contradictory. "mr conte chose to make unsubstantiated allegations on television, while marion jones demanded to take and then passed a lie detector examination.  "mr conte is simply not credible. we challenge him to submit to the same lie detector procedure that marion jones passed." the sport's ruling body, the iaaf, is taking a cautious approach to conte's allegations but contacted the us anti-doping agency. communications director nick davies said the iaaf would seek to contact conte "for further information". but davies stressed it would be up to the american authorities to decide whether they will take action against jones in light of conte's television interview and the world governing body would monitor the situation closely. "if it is felt there is case to answer, it would be for its national governing body (usa track and field) to take the appropriate disciplinary action," he added. "the us anti-doping agency has proved itself to be very diligent in its anti-doping war. "and i am sure, like ourselves, they will be watching the television programme with great interest." jones, who is under investigation for steroid use by the us anti-doping agency, has continually denied ever taking illegal substances since being investigated in the balco scandal, although she praised a zinc supplement conte marketed. jones, who did not win any medals in athens in august, has never failed a drugs test. meanwhile, conte, who has been charged along with three other men of distributing illegal steroids and money laundering, is due to face trial in march. voters flock to blog awards site  voting is under way for the annual bloggies which recognise the best web blogs - online spaces where people publish their thoughts - of the year.  nominations were announced on sunday, but traffic to the official site was so heavy that the website was temporarily closed because of too many visitors. weblogs have been nominated in 30 categories, from the top regional blog, to the best-kept-secret blog. blogs had a huge year, with a top us dictionary naming "blog" word of 2004. technorati, a blog search engine, tracks about six million blogs and says that more than 12,000 are added daily. a blog is created every 5.8 seconds, according to us research think-tank pew internet and american life, but less than 40% of the total are updated at least once every two months.  nikolai nolan, who has run the bloggies for the past five years, told the bbc news website he was not too surprised by the amount of voters who crowded the site. "the awards always get a lot of traffic; this was just my first year on a server with a bandwidth limit, so i had to guess how much i'd need," he said. there were many new finalists this year, he added, and a few that had won bloggies before. several entries reflected specific news events. "there are four nominations for the south-east asia earthquake and tsunami blog, which is a pretty timely one for 2005," said mr nolan.  the big bloggies battle will be for the ultimate prize of blog of the year. the nominated blogs are wide-ranging covering what is in the news to quirky sites of interest. fighting it out for the coveted award are gawker, this fish needs a bicycle, wonkette, boing boing, and gothamist. in a sign that blogs are playing an increasingly key part in spreading news and current affairs, the south-east asia earthquake and tsunami blog is also nominated in the best overall category. greenfairydotcom, londonist, hicksdesign, plasticbag and london underground tube blog are the nominees in the best british or irish weblog.  included in the other categories is best "meme". this is for the top "replicating idea that spread about weblogs". nominations include flickr, a web photo album which lets people upload, tag, share and publish their images to blogs. podcasting has also made an appearance in the category. it is an increasingly popular idea that makes use of rss (really simple syndication) and audio technology to let people easily make their own radio shows, and distribute them automatically onto portable devices.  many are done by those who already have text-based blogs, so they are almost like audio blogs. three new categories have been added to the list this year, including best food, best entertainment, and best writing of a weblog. one of the categories that was scrapped though was best music blog. the winners of the fifth annual bloggies are chosen by the public. public voting closes on 3 february and the winners will be announced sometime between 13 and 15 march. europe blames us over weak dollar  european leaders have openly blamed the us for the sharp rise in the value of the euro.  us officials were talking up the dollar, they said, but failing to take action to back up their words. meeting in brussels, finance ministers of the 12 eurozone countries voiced their concern that the rise of the european currency was harming exports. the dollar is within touching distance of an all-time low reached earlier in november. at 0619 gmt on tuesday, the dollar was up slightly at just above $1.29 to the euro, and buying 105.6 yen in tokyo. it rallied briefly on monday amid signs that oil prices are easing.  but analysts said the respite was likely to be only temporary. the european ministers' comments, said junya tanase of jpmorgan chase bank in tokyo, were "generally too weak to produce a market reaction".  still, by the standards of diplomacy the european ministers were forthright. nicolas sarkozy of france said he and his colleagues were unanimous in their worry that the decline of the dollar would hit europe's economies by eating into their exports. "we are concerned about these developments, which are destabilising, and which are linked to the accumulation of deficits by our american friends," he said. the comments come a day after us treasury secretary john snow said a strong dollar was "in america's interest".  but that was not enough for mr sarkozy.  "if the americans were to change their policy, it's up to them to say so," he said. and the european union's monetary affairs commissioner, made it clear that action was necessary. "i fully welcome the words of mr snow," said joaquin almunia, "but we will need to see decisions adopted in that direction. "if the imbalances in the us economy are not adjusted in the future, the decision in the market will be as in the past weeks." economists point out that whatever europe says, in the short term a weaker dollar is a boon to president george w bush's administration. not only does it boost us exports, but it also makes the budget deficit easier to fund. on the other hand, slower european exports would mean slower eu growth - potentially reducing the demand for us goods. oscar nominee dan o'herlihy dies  irish actor dan o'herlihy, who was nominated for best actor at the 1955 oscars, has died at the age of 85.  o'herlihy, whose oscar nomination was for luis bunuel's the adventures of robinson crusoe, died at his home in malibu, california, a spokesman said. the actor began his film career in the 1940s, playing macduff to orson welles' macbeth in 1948, and was also a regular in on the dublin stage. he later appeared in robocop and its sequel and cult tv show twin peaks. he played the ceo of omni consumer products in 1987's robocop and robocop 2 three years later, and was saw mill owner andrew packard in twin peaks, also in 1990. despite his oscar nomination, he had few other lead roles and became a familiar supporting actor on tv and in film. the year he was nominated, the academy award was won by marlon brando for on the waterfront. tory leader quits legal position  david mcletchie has resigned from his post as a partner in a legal firm following criticism over his dual role.  the scottish conservative leader had insisted that his legal work with tods murray did not influence the causes he supports. but on friday he said: "i have tendered my resignation as a partner with immediate effect." mr mcletchie had received advice from holyrood officials about what details he needed to declare. labour said he had "cleverly" not asked about paid advocacy. a tory spokesman "totally refuted" any wrongdoing.  mr mcletchie received advice from the clerk to the standards committee after concern over him signing a parliamentary motion questioning expansion plans for edinburgh airport. the msp had been a partner for tods murray which has a client opposing the development. mr mcletchie did not have a complaint made against him, but when concerns were raised he sought guidance from the standards committee to clarify his position. he was advised to exercise judgement to avoid the perception of a conflict and said he had done nothing wrong.  explaining his reason for quitting the post, mr mcletchie said: "i have been greatly concerned by the recent publicity surrounding my association with tods murray. "however, i have no wish to see a similar situation arise again. "to avoid any misconceptions in the future and be mindful of the good name of tods murray and the confidentiality to which its clients are entitled, i have brought forward the date of my retirement from the firm which would otherwise have happened later this year. "i am proud to have been a part of tods murray for the last 29 years and wish it well in the future."  labour msp christine may had said mr mcletchie was "very clever" to ask the clerk to consider his conduct in respect of section 5 of the code. "he was almost bound to get the answer he wanted from this enquiry since he stands accused of breaching section 6, the section on paid advocacy," she said. section 5 of the members interest order legally obliges msps to declare registrable interests before taking part in related parliamentary proceedings "where the interest would prejudice or give the appearance of prejudicing their ability to participate in a disinterested manner". however, msps' code of conduct "recognises a wider definition" of parliamentary proceedings, including a non-statutory requirement to make a declaration in relation to written notices, such as motions.  but a letter from holyrood's chamber office chief ken hughes also made clear that mr mcletchie did not need to list any of the clients for whom he worked as a solicitor. commenting on mr mcletchie's decision to stand down, a scottish labour party spokesman said: "this should mean mr mcletchie doesn't breach the paid advocacy rules in future. "however it doesn't change the fact that there should be a full investigation into whether he has done this in the past."  scottish national party holyrood leader nicola sturgeon accused mr mcletchie of failing to properly serve his constituents. ms sturgeon said: "i think this whole episode has been very damaging for mr mcletchie and i'm sure he will be reflecting on it." she added that she thought that the tories were an irrelevant party so she would not "lose any sleep over it". peter misselbrook, executive partner of tods murray said mr mcletchie had been considering retirement later in the year. he added: "david has decided that this announcement should be made now and we fully understand and appreciate his reasons for doing so." thanou desperate to make return  greek sprinter katerina thanou says she is eager to compete again after being cleared of missing a drugs test by an independent greek tribunal.  thanou, 30, was provisionally suspended for missing a test before the olympics, but the decision was overturned. "the iaaf will decide if we can compete again in greece and abroad," thanou told to vima newspaper in her first interview since the athens olympics. "if given the green light i will run again - that's the only thing i want." thanou, 30, and her compatriot kostas kenteris were provisionally suspended by the iaaf in december for missing three drugs tests. the third was alleged to have been on the eve of the opening ceremony of the athens olympics.  but an independent tribunal of the greek athletics federation overturned the provisional ban on 18 march. the iaaf - which said it was "very surprised" by the decision of the greek tribunal - is deciding whether to appeal against the decision at the court of arbitration for sport. however, dick pound, the chairman of the world anti-doping authority, has said he will appeal against the decision if the iaaf does not. and thanou and kenteris face a criminal trial later this year for allegedly avoiding the test and then faking a motorcycle accident. thanou said: "i can see how people can think the accident seemed like a childish excuse. "i cannot deny that we made a lot of mistakes during that time. i always said we needed a pr person. "an athlete would have to be very stupid to take illegal substances when he or she knows that they will undergo tests at any given moment. "i am a champion. i cannot risk everything i've achieved in such a silly way." latest opera browser gets vocal  net browser opera 8.0, due for official release at the end of next month, will be "the most accessible browser on the market", according to its authors.  the latest version of the net browser can be controlled by voice command and will read pages aloud. the voice features, based on ibm technology, are currently only available in the windows version. opera can also magnify text by up to 10 times and users can create "style sheets", its developers say. this will enable them to view pages with colours and fonts that they prefer. but the browser does not yet work well with screen reader software often used by blind people, so its accessibility features are more likely to appeal to those with some residual vision. "our mission was always to provide the best internet experience for everyone," said opera spokeswoman, berit hanson. "so we would obviously not want to exclude disabled computer users."  another feature likely to appeal to people with low vision is the ability to make pages fit to the screen width, which eliminates the need for horizontal scrolling.  the company points out that this will also appeal to anyone using opera with a handheld device. the company says that features like voice activation are not solely aimed at visually impaired people. "our idea was to take a first step in making human-computer interaction more natural," said ms hanson. "people are not always in a situation where they can access a keyboard, so this makes the web a more hands-free experience." unlike commercially available voice recognition software, opera does not have to be "trained" to recognise an individual voice. around 50 voice commands are available and users will have to wear a headset which incorporates a microphone. the voice recognition function is currently only available in english. opera is free to download but a paid-for version comes without an ad banner in the top right hand corner and with extra support. opera began life as a research project - a spin-off from norwegian telecoms company telenor. its browser is used by an estimated 10 million people on a variety of operating systems and a number of different platforms. french wine gets 70m euro top-up  the french government is to hand its struggling wine industry 70m euros ($91m) in aid to help it battle falling sales and damaging overproduction.  the financial package is aimed at assisting vintners in financial trouble and improving how its wine is marketed. the french wine industry, the world's second largest, has been hit by declining consumption at home and the growing popularity of new world wines. wine makers, however, claimed the support did not go far enough. the package was announced by agriculture minister dominique bussereau after talks with vintners' representatives.  the bulk of the money - about 40m euros - will be offered in the form of preferential loans to heavily indebted producers to enable them to reschedule their payments. a further 15m euros will be made available to wine cooperatives, which make up the majority of french producers, in low interest loans. efforts to promote french wine abroad are to be boosted by an extra 3.5m euros in funding. france fell behind the 'new world' producers of australia, chile and the united states for the first time in 2003 in terms of exports.  domestic consumption, accounting for 70% of sales, has suffered from strict restrictions on advertising and tough drink-driving laws.  the aid package would "create a positive climate around french viticulture," mr bussereau said. however, wine makers and farmers said the support was much less than they had been hoping for. "i am afraid the resources are not up to the ambitions," jean-michel lemetayer, from the fnsea agricultural union, told the associated press news agency. in an effort to tackle overcapacity, the government will agree that vines can be destroyed in areas where growers give their unanimous consent, while 500 vintners will be helped to take early retirement. the government will also seek european union approval to distil about 250 million litres of excess wine into alcohol, with vintners receiving compensation. production is currently outstripping demand by about 30%. the support is designed to make french producers more competitive in the face of increasing global consolidation across the wine industry. wine makers in france's best-known regions, such as burgundy, have found it hard to invest in new technology and to create recognisable brands to appeal to overseas buyers. berlin cheers for anti-nazi film  a german movie about an anti-nazi resistance heroine has drawn loud applause at berlin film festival.  sophie scholl - the final days portrays the final days of the member of the white rose movement. scholl, 21, was arrested and beheaded with her brother, hans, in 1943 for distributing leaflets condemning the "abhorrent tyranny" of adolf hitler. director marc rothemund said: "i have a feeling of responsibility to keep the legacy of the scholls going." "we must somehow keep their ideas alive," he added.  the film drew on transcripts of gestapo interrogations and scholl's trial preserved in the archive of communist east germany's secret police. their discovery was the inspiration behind the film for rothemund, who worked closely with surviving relatives, including one of scholl's sisters, to ensure historical accuracy on the film. scholl and other members of the white rose resistance group first started distributing anti-nazi leaflets in the summer of 1942. they were arrested as they dropped leaflets at munich university calling for a "day of reckoning" with adolf hitler's regime. the film focuses on the six days from scholl's arrest to the intense trial which saw scholl initially deny the charges and ended with a defiant appearance. it is one of three german films vying for a top prize at the festival.  a south african film version of bizet's tragic opera carmen shot in cape town in the xhosa language has also premiered at the berlin festival. the film is entitled u-carmen ekhayelitsha or carmen in khayelitsha after the township in which the story is set. it is performed by a 40-strong music and theatre troupe in their debut film performance. the film is the first south african feature in 25 years and only the second to be nominated for a golden bear award. msps hear renewed climate warning  climate change could be completely out of control within several decades, the scottish environment protection agency is warning a committee of msps.  experts are giving evidence on the subject to the scottish parliament's environment committee. officials believe nuclear energy and wind farms may be better options than trying to tackle global warming. solutions suggested by conservationists include reducing internal uk air travel and boosting electric trains. the evidence is part of the committee's inquiry into the impact of climate change in scotland. sepa is attempting to curb global warming gases, as pollution from transport emissions increases.  ecologists are warning msps that scotland may have to accept "significant intrusion" from wind farms. it is likely also that nuclear power will be needed for possibly several decades. sepa predict that the two methods will remain as energy sources until climate change is under control. experts studying the seas off scotland's west coast have already forecast more devastating weather of the type which caused havoc across the country last month.  they predicted that damaging storms will become more frequent. researchers from the university of the highlands and islands and southampton have been looking at wave heights in the atlantic over the last nine years. the project was conducted jointly by the environmental research institute in thurso, which is part of the university of the highlands and islands (uhi) millennium institute network, and the southampton oceanography centre. scientists carried out a series of studies, including the use of satellites to assess wave heights in the seas around the west coast and the hebrides. relay squad thrilled with honours  jason gardener says being made an mbe in the new year honours list underlines the achievement of great britain's 4x100m relay squad at the olympics.  gardener, darren campbell, marlon devonish and mark lewis-francis have all been awarded mbes after beating pre-race favourites usa to gold. "i think this award reinforces what we did on that fantastic night," he said. "this recognition is really inspiring and makes me want to have more success," said lewis-francis. the british sprint quartet produced a string of faultless baton changes in the final to put pressure on the americans.  and when the usa stumbled with a poor switch between justin gatlin and coby miller at the 300m stage, britain edged ahead going into the final bend. then, on cue, lewis-francis ran a textbook final leg, holding off maurice greene to bring team gb home in 38.07 seconds - just one hundredth of a second ahead of their rivals. "winning the gold medal was the highlight of my athletics career so far," said the birchfield harrier. "this award is not just for me, but for all my friends, family and the people who have helped me to get to this level in my sport." gardener added: "all of us had worked very hard for a long, long time to carry off what most believed was an impossible task. "of course this award is very special, but for me nothing will ever take away winning an olympic gold medal. it's all i ever wanted. "all my life that is what i dreamed of doing. life since then has been fantastic." campbell agreed receiving the honour capped off what has been a difficult year for the sprinter. "i think the mbe is important because the people closest to me know my journey," said the newport-based athlete. "i've not just stumbled upon this. "it gives me a lot of joy and satisfaction to know the stuff you do for your country does mean something."  - there was also recognition for james clarke, chairman of the london marathon. he becomes an obe. web radio takes spanish rap global  spin the radio dial in the us and you are likely to find plenty of spanish-language music. but what you will not find is much spanish-language hip-hop.  hip-hop and rap are actually quite popular in the spanish-speaking world, but local artists are having trouble marketing their work abroad. but now, a us company is bringing rap and hip-hop en espanol to computer users everywhere. los caballeros de plan g are one of mexico's hottest hip-hop acts. they have a devoted fan base in their native monterrey. but most mexican hip-hop fans, not to mention fans in most of the spanish-speaking world, rarely get a chance to hear the group's tracks on the radio.  "you can't really just go on the radio and listen to hip-hop in spanish... it's just not accessible," says manuel millan, a native of san diego, california. "it's really hard for the spanish hip-hop scene to get into mainstream radio. you usually have a very commercialised sound and the groups are not really known around the country or around the world." millan and two friends set out to change that - they wanted to make groups like los caballeros de plan g accessible to fans globally.  mainstream radio stations were not going to play this kind of music, and starting their own broadcast station was economically impossible. so, millan and his friends launched a website called latinohiphopradio.com. the name says it all: it is web-based radio, devoted to the hottest spanish language rap and hip-hop tracks. the site, which is in both in english and spanish, is meant to be easy to navigate. all the user has to do is download a media player. there are no djs. it is just music streamed over the net for free. suddenly, with the help of the website, los caballeros de plan g are producing "export quality" rap.  the web might be just the right medium for spanish language hip-hop right now. the genre is in what millan calls its "infant stage". but the production values are improving, and artists such as argentina's mustafa yoda are pushing to make it better and better. mustafa yoda is currently one of the hottest tracks on latinohiphopradio.com. "he's considered the eminem of argentina, and the latin american hip-hop scene," millan says. "he really hasn't had that much exposure as far as anywhere in the world, but he's definitely the one to look out for as far as becoming the next big thing in the spanish-speaking world." currently, the chilean group makisa is also in latinohiphopradio.com's top 10, as is cuban artist papo record. "every country's got it's own cultural differences and they try to put those into their own songs," millan says. latinohiphopradio.com has been up and running for a couple of months now. the site has listeners from across the spanish speaking world. right now, mexico leads the way, accounting for about 50% of listeners. but web surfers in spain are logging in as well - about 25% of the web station's traffic comes from there. that is not surprising as many consider spain to be the leader in spanish-language rap and hip-hop. millan says that spain is actually just behind the united states and france in terms of overall rap and hip-hop production. that might be changing, though, as more and more latin american artists are finding audiences.  but one spaniard is still firmly in latinohiphopradio.com's top 10. his name is tote king and manuel millan says that he is the hip-hop leader in spain. on his track uno contra veinte emcees, or one against 20 emcees, tote king shows he is well aware of that fact. "it's basically him bragging that he's one of the best emcees in spain right now," millan says. "and it's pretty much true. he has the tightest productions, and his rap flow is impeccable, it's amazing." latinohiphopradio.com is hoping to expand in the coming year. millan says they want to include more music and more news from the world of spanish language hip-hop and rap.  clark boyd is technology correspondent for the world, a bbc world service and wgbh-boston co-production. russia gets investment blessing  soaring oil sales and a budget surplus mean russian debt is no longer a risky investment, one of the world's leading credit rating agencies says.  standard & poor's has classed russian bonds as "investment grade", up from their former "speculative" rating. russia's reputation among investors has been hurt in recent months by the heavy tax bills and asset seizures imposed on companies such as oil giant yukos. s&p said the solidity of government finances outweighed the risk. russia is now a net creditor rather than a debtor. gold and foreign currency reserves of $119bn beat its foreign public debt of some $113bn.  the other two major ratings agencies - fitch and moody's have long since upped their rating of russia's sovereign debt. s&p had held back through fear that the government was dragging its feet on economic and legal reforms. now, though, it has finally followed suit. but the agency made it clear that the improved rating did not mean that the risks were a thing of the past. instead, with russian government coffers brimming with tax revenues from energy sales, s&p said the government's own debt is looking a good bet. "these improvements are so significant that they now outweight the serious and growing political risk that continues to be a key ratings constraint on russia," wrote s&p credit analyst helena hessel.  the yukos saga is the most high-profile of the political risks to which ms hessel alludes. the company's founder and ex-chief executive, mikhail khodorkovsky, is in jail on trial for tax evasion and fraud. many believe the real motive for his prosecution is that he threatened to use his wealth to set up a political alternative to president vladimir putin. his company, meanwhile, is widely believed to have fallen victim to the kremlin's wish to get russian energy resources as far as possible back under state control. wine comedy wins critics' award  quirky comedy sideways was named the best film of the year by the los angeles film critics association.  the us movie also picked up four other accolades including best director for alexander payne and supporting actor for thomas haden church. british actress imelda staunton has again been recognised for her role in vera drake, winning best actress, while liam neeson won best actor for kinsey. the awards will be handed out on 13 january at a ceremony in las vegas.  sideways tells the story of two men who take a road trip through california's wine regions and also stars paul giamatti. virginia madsen was also named best supporting actress for her performance in the film. house of flying daggers, directed by yimou zhang, was named best foreign language film, while the animation award went to the incredibles. unusually, the runners-up in categories were also named with clint eastwood's million dollar baby just missing out on the best film award. the best director runner-up was martin scorsese for the aviator. a career achievement award will be handed to veteran actor and comic jerry lewis at the ceremony next year. vouchers 'to cut winter deaths'  pensioners are being promised energy savings by the liberal democrats, as snow and cold temperatures continue.  the party says the plans could save the average pensioner £100 every year and cut winter deaths. the government gives £200 for winter fuel to households with people over 60, or £300 where people are over 80. the tories promise to keep the payments. the lib dems would allow people to swap these winter fuel payments for discounts on home insulation. shadow local government secretary ed davey said: "the current scheme has helped some older people, but this new liberal democrat approach will go much further to end the scandal of tens of thousands of old people dying from the winter cold every year." the vouchers are designed to let pensioners choose from a list of approved energy supplies who would compete for business by offering discounts on home insulation schemes. the plan would boost energy conservation, says the party - and insulation could save £100 every year for pensioner households, so using the money more "intelligently" than at present. balco case trial date pushed back  the trial date for the bay area laboratory cooperative (balco) steroid distribution case has been postponed.  us judge susan illston pushed back a preliminary evidentiary hearing - which was due to take place on wednesday - until 6 june. no official trial date has been set but it is expected to begin in september. balco founder victor conte along with james valente, coach remy korchemny and trainer greg anderson are charged with distributing steroids to athletes.  anderson's clients include barry bonds, and several other baseball stars have been asked to appear before a congressional inquiry into steroid use in the major leagues. the balco defence team have already lost their appeal to have the case dismissed at a pre-trial hearing in san francisco but will still argue the case should not go to trial. the hearing in june will focus on the admissibility of evidence gathered during police raids on balco's offices and anderson's home. conte and anderson were not arrested at that point but federal agents did obtain statements from them. the defence are expected to challenge the legality of those interviews and if ilston agrees she could could reject all the evidence from the raids. balco has been accused by the united states anti-doping agency (usada) of being the source of the banned steroid thg and modafinil.  former double world champion kelli white and olympic relay star alvin harrison have both been banned on the basis of materials discovered during the balco investigation. britain's former european 100m champion dwain chambers is currently serving a two-year ban after testing positive for thg in an out-of-competition test in 2003. and american sprinter marion jones has filed a lawsuit for defamation against conte following his allegations that he gave her performance-enhancing drugs. movie body targets children's pcs  the body that represents the us movie industry has released its latest tool in its campaign to clamp down on movie file-sharing, aimed at parents.  the movie association for america's (mpaa) free parent file scan software lets parents check their children's computers for peer-to-peer programs. it will also list all movie and music files they have on their hard drive. parents then have the choice to remove programs and files. the mpaa said files found would not be passed on to it. "our ultimate goal is to help consumers locate the resources and information they need to make appropriate decisions about using and trading illegal files," said dan glickman, mpaa chief. "many parents are concerned about what their children have downloaded and where they've downloaded it from."  but some computer users who had tested the latest software reported on some technology sites that the program had identified windows default wav files as copyrighted material and wanted to delete them. movie piracy cost the industry £3.7bn ($7bn) in 2003, according to analysts. the mpaa said in a statement that it would continue to provide easy access to similar tools in the coming months to combat "the deleterious effects of peer-to-peer software, including such common problems as viruses, trojan horses and identity theft".  mr glickman said that the film industry was embracing "digital age technologies", like movielink and cinemanow, which are legal movie sites. "but legal services such as these need a chance to grow and thrive without having to compete against illegitimate operations that depend on stolen property to survive," he added. the industry body also said it had launched a second round of legal action against online movie-swappers across the us, but did not say how many were being sued. its first set of lawsuits were filed in november 2004. it also started a campaign against operators of bittorrent, edonkey and directconnect peer-to-peer networks. the first convictions for peer-to-peer piracy were handed out in the us in january. william trowbridge and michael chicoine pleaded guilty to charges that they infringed copyright by illegally sharing music, movies and software. iranian mps threaten mobile deal  turkey's biggest private mobile firm could bail out of a $3bn ($1.6bn) deal to build a network in iran after mps there slashed its stake in the project.  conservatives in parliament say turkcell's stake in irancell, the new network, should be cut from 70% to 49%. they have already given themselves a veto over all foreign investment deals, following allegations about turkish firms' involvement in israel. turkcell now says it may give up on the deal altogether.  iran currently has only one heavily congested mobile network, with long waiting lists for new subscribers. turkcell signed a contract for the new network in september. the new operator planned to offer subscriptions for about $180, well below the existing firm's $500 price tag. but a parliamentary commission has now ruled that turkcell's 70% controlling stake is too high. they say that turkcell is a security risk because of alleged business ties with israel. parliament as a whole - dominated by religious conservatives - will vote on the ruling on tuesday.  turkcell said the ruling would "make more difficult... turkcell's financial consolidation of irancell" because its stake would be reduced to less than 50%. "if management control and financial consolidation of irancell cannot be achieved... the realisation of the project will become risky," it warned in a statement. the firm has refused to comment on whether it has business dealings in israel, although like almost all gsm operators worldwide it has an interconnection deal with israeli networks so that its customers can use their phones there. the two countries strengthened ties in both defence and economic issues in 2004. israeli industry minister ehud olmert was reported in june to have attended a meeting between ruhi dogusoy, turkcell's chief operating officer, and executives from israeli telecoms firms. telecoms is one of two areas specifically targeted by the new veto law on foreign investments, passed earlier in september. the other is airports, a source of controversy after the army closed tehran's new imam khomeini international airport on its opening day in may 2004. again, the allegation was that the part-turkish tav consortium which built and ran it had links with israel. actor foxx sees globe nominations  us actor jamie foxx has been given two nominations for golden globe awards, with meryl streep, morgan freeman and cate blanchett also up for prizes.  the stars were shortlisted on monday for supporting roles, with the main nominations still to come. foxx has starred in collateral and ray. clive owen, david carradine and natalie portman are also up for awards. the golden globes, hollywood's second most prominent awards, are the first major nominations to be announced. last year, the lord of the rings: the return of the king was named best drama movie while lost in translation won best musical or comedy. sean penn, charlize theron, tim robbins and renee zellweger all won acting awards - mirroring the eventual oscars outcome. the golden globes ceremony will take place on 16 january, with the oscars following on 27 february. new 'yob' targets to be unveiled  fifty new areas getting special help to fight anti-social behaviour in england and wales will be named on thursday.  ten areas have already had access to special prosecutors and local experts and the government is now expanding the crackdown to more towns and cities. details of how many anti-social behaviour orders (asbos) were used in the last year are also being published. labour sees nuisance behaviour as a key election issue but critics claim the record is at best patchy. a year ago, ministers launched their anti-social behaviour plan and thursday's figures offer a progress check. they will say that in the past year more than 2,600 anti-social behaviour orders were issued by the courts - more than double the total used in the previous four years.  police have also closed 150 crack houses and issued more than 400 dispersal orders, breaking up groups of youths in public places. the 50 new pilot areas to get special attention will also receive extra government funding. exeter and cardiff are among cities who have voiced interest in being involved.  prime minister tony blair is also expected to announce new measures to strengthen the use of asbos and fixed penalty notices. there are still concerns that some areas of the country are not using the powers properly.  he is expected to say that the new figures were heartening but he would not rest until similar action was taken in all areas of the country where it was needed. "we have not defeated this problem by any means, but shown together what can be done," he will say. mr blair this week defended the shake-up of the licensing laws, saying it was right to focus on troublemakers rather than treating everybody as a potential drunken nuisance.  ministers also boast of record police numbers and are speeding up plans to put in place 25,000 community support officers (csos). but researchers from leeds university warned that csos could undermine traditional bonds between police officers and communities. more work needed to be done on clarifying the role of different agencies and how they linked together before csos, they argued in a the study. critics of the government say it has announced more than 20 initiatives to tackle nuisance behaviour when the real focus should be on good policing. home office minister hazel blears also revealed this week that "about a third" of asbos were breached - with some people jailed and others not. collins calls for chambers return  world 100m champion kim collins says suspended sprinter dwain chambers should be allowed to compete in the olympics again.  chambers was banned for two years after testing positive for the anabolic steroid thg and his suspension runs out in november this year. but collins says the british olympic association should reverse the decision to ban him from the olympics for life. "it was too harsh," collins told radio five live. "they should reconsider." chambers has been in america learning american football but has not ruled out a return to the track. collins added: "he is a great guy and i have never had any problems with him. we are friends. "i would like to see dwain come back and compete again. he is a good person. "even though he made a mistake he understands what he did and should be given a chance once more." norway upholds 'napster' ruling  a norwegian student who ran a website which linked to downloadable mp3 files has been ordered to pay compensation by the country's supreme court.  frank allan bruvik was ordered to pay 100,000 kroner (£8,000) to the music industry in norway. he was a student when he set up his napster.no site, which allowed users to submit and receive links to mp3 files. bruvik had earlier been cleared on appeal after a lower court had found for the music industry. music industry bosses in norway said the ruling would help build confidence in the internet as a distribution medium.  frank allan bruvik set up the napster.no website as part of a school project in 2001 while studying computer engineering in the norwegian town of lillehammer. the website was not associated with the napster.com site in the usa, which had been operating since 1999 and was already facing legal action.  bruvik's site was online between august and november 2001, and while it did not host any music, at its peak it was providing links to more than 170 free files on other servers. as well as providing links, the site allowed those visiting it to submit links that could later be accessed by other visitors. a legal complaint for copyright violation was filed by groups including norway's performing rights society, tono, and the norwegian branches of sony music and universal music, who saw it as an important test of principle.  a norwegian court ruled in 2003 that bruvik would have to pay 100,000 kroner to the music industry, but the country's court of appeal cleared him, saying that the copyright violation occurred when others posted the music. however, the supreme court stated that the music was clearly published in violation of copyright law it added that the case was decided based on the responsibility for abetting an illegal act, and that bruvik's actions were premeditated. norway's music industry said it was satisfied with the ruling, because showed that music piracy would not be accepted.  meanwhile, in the usa a further 717 lawsuits against people alleged to have traded copyrighted songs were filed this week by the recording industry association of america. the suits, brought on behalf of the major record companies, cite the individuals for illegally distributing music via unauthorized peer-to-peer services such as kazaa and edonkey. as with preceding cases, the fresh action was made against so-called "john doe" defendants, who are identified only by the codes given to their computers' internet connections. argentina closes $102.6bn debt swap  argentina is set to close its $102.6bn (£53.51bn) debt restructuring offer for bondholders later on friday, with the government hopeful that most creditors will accept the deal.  the estimated loss to bondholders is up to 70% of the original value of the bonds, yet the majority are expected to accept the government's offer. argentina defaulted on its debt three years ago, the biggest sovereign default in modern history. yesterday argentina's economy minister, roberto lavagna, said that he estimated that the results of the restructuring would be ready around next thursday (3 march). argentina's president, nestor kirchner, said on friday: "a year ago when we started the swap (negotiations), they told us we were crazy, that we were irrational." but he added that his government was close to achieving: "the best debt renegotiation in history." the country has been in default on the $102.6bn - based on an original debt of $81.8bn plus interest - for the past three years. if the offer does not go ahead, international lawsuits on behalf of aggrieved investors could follow but analysts are optimistic that it will go through, despite the tough terms for bondholders. about 70% to 80% of bondholders are expected to accept the terms of the offer. by 18 february, creditors holding $41bn - or 40% of the total debt - had accepted the offer. sorting out its debt would enhance the country's credibility on international markets and enable it to attract more foreign investment. of argentina's bondholders, 38.4% reside in argentina, 15.6% in italy, 10.3% in switzerland, 9.1% in the united states, 5.1% in germany and 3.1% in japan. investors in the uk, holland and luxembourg have about 1% each and the remainder were not broken down by country. the deal is likely to be taken up most enthusiastically by domestic investors, who will benefit if argentina's economy becomes more stable. godzilla gets hollywood fame star  movie monster godzilla has received a star on hollywood's walk of fame, honouring both his 50th birthday and the launch of his 28th film.  an actor dressed as the giant creature breathed smoke over photographers on monday as godzilla received the 2,271st star on hollywood boulevard. "godzilla should thank you for this historical and monumental star," said final wars producer shogo tomiyama. "but unfortunately, he cannot speak english," he added. hollywood's honorary mayor, johnny grant, said: "i do hereby proclaim this godzilla day in hollywood.  "he's loose, he's wild, and i'm getting the hell out of here," he added. the premiere of godzilla: final wars at grauman's chinese theatre followed the ceremony on hollywood boulevard. the monster was joined by co-stars including japanese pop star and actor masahiro matsuoka. director ryuhei kitamura said it may not be godzilla's final outing, as it has been billed. "that's what the producers say. but the producer's a liar," he said. "[godzilla's] been working for the last 50 years. so, i think godzilla just deserves a vacation." and producer shogo tomiyama added: "so long as godzilla can fascinate people, i believe he will be resurrected by new generations of filmmakers in the future." godzilla first appeared in 1954 as a prehistoric lizard woken by atomic bomb tests. kennedy calls for iraq exit plans  tony blair should set out a proper exit strategy from iraq in the wake of next sunday's elections in the country, lib dem leader charles kennedy has said.  in a speech focusing on issues arising from the re-election of george w bush, mr kennedy said iraq had become a "crucible of militant terrorism". he wants to see a phased withdrawal of uk troops "as soon as the situation allows", he said in london. any exit strategy must "augment and support" the democratic process.  "there are some who are of the opinion that the mere presence of british and american troops in iraq feeds the insurgency," he said. "there is some truth in that, especially after the initial mistakes that were made - the heavy-handedness of operations like fallujah, and the well-publicised instances of abuse at the hands of coalition forces." mr kennedy pointed out that the netherlands, portugal and the czech republic, which all have troops operating in the southern sector of iraq, have announced their imminent withdrawal "regardless of the situation on the ground".  he accused mr blair's government of "being less than straightforward" over its plans. "next week the prime minister should make a statement regarding the elections in iraq," mr kennedy said during his city of london speech. "he should set out a proper exit strategy, including the phased withdrawal of british troops, as the security situation allows." mr kennedy also argued that british troops deployed in iraq should be replaced with forces from other countries - "especially islamic countries". costin aims for comeback in 2006  jamie costin should be paralysed.  he says so himself in a matter-of-fact way as he recalls the car accident which occurred nine days before he was scheduled to step out into the olympic stadium in athens for the 50k walk. there is an ironic chuckle as he talks of his immediate thoughts after a lorry, driving on the wrong side of the road, had ploughed into his rental car. "i was in a lot of pain and i guessed that one of my toes was broken," says the waterford man. "but i was thinking maybe with a cortisone injection you never know. "in my back, it felt as though all the muscles had been ripped off my pelvis but i was thinking maybe we could do something with laser therapy and ultra sound and hopefully i'd be able to race." it took over 10 hours before jamie knew with certainty that he would not be competing in his second olympics. "my back had been broken in two places and with one of my vertebrae, the bottom part had exploded so i'm fierce lucky not be paralysed. "i'd fractured my big toe as well which was on the brake." jamie didn't finally arrive at hospital in athens until some nine and a half hours after the accident.  "for the first nine hours, i had no pain killers which was ridiculous in 35 degrees heat. "but once i got the scans and saw them it was a case of moving on and thinking:'ok, i've got a different set of circumstances now'." within three days he was arriving back in ireland by air ambulance. doctors in athens had wanted to operate on jamie's back immediately but he insisted on delaying any surgery until he arrived back home - something he is now very relieved about. "the greek doctors were going to put three or four inch titanium rods either side of my spinal cord up through my vertebrae. "that would have fused all my lower back and i would never have been able to race again. they were really putting a lot of pressure on me to agree to the surgery. "but when i got to the mater in dublin they said it was possible for it to heal totally naturally which is giving me the chance to get back into competition which is very important to me. the people at the mater have been absolutely fantastic." jamie had to wear a body cast for three and a half months after the accident and spent most of that time flat on his back.  he then progressed to crutches for six weeks until he was finally able to walk unaided on 10 january. "walking without the crutches seemed like something finally really measurable in terms of my recovery." physio sessions with johnston mcevoy in limerick have been a vital part of his recovery. "johnston uses an advanced type of acupuncture and it's very effective. "needles get put right close up to my spine. a two and a half inch needle went in yesterday and i'm fairly incapacitated today as a result." jamie has also travelled to receive treatment at the polish training centre in spala where he has trained with triple olympic champion robert korzeniowski over the past five years. "i was there for over a fortnight earlier this month and underwent a fair extreme treatment called cryotherapy. "basically, there's a small room which is cooled by liquid nitrogen to minus 160 degrees centigrade and it promotes deep healing."  jamie heads to poland again on sunday where he will be having daily cryotherapy in addition to twice-daily physio sessions and pool-work. all these sessions are small steps on the way to what jamie hopes will be a return to racing in 2006. "it's all about trying to get mobility in my back. lying down for three and a half months didn't really help with the strength. "there's a lot of work involved in my recovery. i'm doing about six hours a day between physio and pool work. "i'm also going to the gym to lift very light weights to try and build up my muscles. i'm fairly full on with everything i do. "i'd hope to be training regularly by march. but training is just part of the process of getting back. "at the moment, every time i go and do a big bit of movement, my whole pelvic area all down my lower back just tightens up. "it's a case of waiting and seeing how it reacts. hopefully, after four or five months my back won't tighten up as much." the future in your pocket  if you are a geek or gadget fan, the next 12 months look like they are going to be a lot of fun.  the relentless pace of development in the hi-tech world and rampant competition in many of its sectors, particularly among mobile phone firms, all suggests that 2005 is going to be a very good year. to begin with, 2005 will be the year that third-generation (3g) mobile phones become inescapable. the 3 network launched in 2003, vodafone launched its consumer service in november, orange followed in early december and t-mobile and o2 are due to launch in 2005. the main result of these launches will likely be a slew of good deals for consumers as operators try to poach new customers from rivals and convince existing users to trade up.  already the extra capacity in 3g networks lets 3 offer good deals on voice calls at rates that will probably have to be matched by the other operators. but the shift in technology and low cost of voice calls means that operators lose a significant chunk of their revenue. "show me an operator that believes their voice business can sustain them, and i'll write their obituary" said niel ransom, chief technology officer at alcatel.  instead operators are likely to push all other things that 3g phones can do such as video messaging and other multimedia capabilities. already camera phones look set to challenge digital cameras and are likely to win more fans as multi-megapixel devices go on sale. but 3g will not have everything its own way. it will face competition from emerging technologies such as wimax. this wireless technology can boost data transmission speeds up to 75 megabits per second and works over distances of up to 30 miles. kent is likely to be the site of the uk's first wimax network which is due to go live in 2005 and it could be the way that rural areas get high-speed net access. analyst firm telecom view predicts that wimax will steal a lot of market share from 3g and will be a clear winner. bob larribeau, principal analyst at telecom view, said the better return on investment offered by technologies such as wimax could dent the possible returns of 3g networks. and the growing ubiquity of wi-fi must not be forgotten either. the technology is popping up in more places than ever and its wider use is only held back by the price differences across countries and suppliers.  moves to unite mobile and fixed phones look set to get more emphasis in 2005 too.  for a start, bt looks set to roll out its bluephone project during the next 12 months. the service revolves around a hybrid device that uses the mobile networks when you are out and about but switches back to the fixed line when you are at home. fixed line phones will also start to get much more serious competition from a technology that has the formidable name of voice over ip (voip). voip routes calls via the net instead of the fixed line phone network. anyone with a broadband connection, which is now more than 50% of the uk's net using population, can use voip and could slash their monthly phone bills if they used it. telecommunications regulator ofcom has declared 056 to be the area code for voip calls and 2005 is likely to see a lot more consumer-focused voip call services starting up. home broadband services will also start to increase in speed as dwindling numbers of new users signing force the pace of competition. if 2004 has been the year of the portable music player, they 2005 looks like it will be the year of the portable media player. motorola has just announced a deal with apple to produce a phone that works with the itunes service and other hybrid gadgets that sport a big memory and lots of other functions will become commonplace. the pace of advancement in storage media will continue mean that the cost per megabyte of memory will plummet. some of those devices will sport huge hard drives letting you store more data than you ever wanted or knew you had. convergence could mean that single-function devices start to dwindle in number. instead every gadget will be able to do almost anything and communicate almost any way you want. the only downside is that consumers will face a series of tough choices as they are confronted by a bewildering array of gadgets each with an enormous numbers of features and vast data holding capacities. but that is the kind of problem most gadget fans can live with. us economy shows solid gdp growth  the us economy has grown more than expected, expanding at an annual rate of 3.8% in the last quarter of 2004.  the gross domestic product figure was ahead of the 3.1% the government estimated a month ago. the rise reflects stronger spending by businesses on capital equipment and a smaller-than-expected trade deficit. gdp is a measure of a country's economic health, reflecting the value of the goods and services it produces.  the new gdp figure, announced by the commerce department on friday, also topped the 3.5% growth rate that economists had forecast ahead of friday's announcement. growth was at an annual rate of 4% in the third quarter of 2004 and for the year it came in at 4.4%, the best figure in five years. however, the positive economic climate may lead to a rise in interest rates, with many expecting us rates to rise on 22 march. in the january-to-march quarter, the economy is expected to grow at an annual rate of about 4%, economists forecast. in the final quarter of 2004, businesses increased spending on capital equipment and software by 18%, up from 17.5% in the third quarter. consumer spending grew 4.2% in the final quarter, down from the third quarter's 5.1%. god cut from dark materials film  the director and screenwriter of the film adaptation of philip pullman's his dark materials is to remove references to god and the church in the movie.  chris weitz, director of about a boy, said the changes were being made after film studio new line expressed concern. the books tell of a battle against the church and a fight to overthrow god. "they have expressed worry about the possibility of perceived anti-religiosity," weitz told a his dark materials fans' website. pullman's trilogy has been attacked by some christian teachers and by the catholic press as blasphemy. weitz, who admitted he would not be many people's first choice to direct the films, said he regarded the film adaptation as "the most important work of my life".  "in part because it is one of the few books to have changed my life," he told bridgetothestars.net. the award-winning trilogy - northern lights, the subtle knife and the amber spyglass - tell the story of oxford school child lyra belacqua. she is drawn into an epic struggle against the church, which has been carrying out experiments on children in an attempt to remove original sin.  as the books progress the struggle turns into a battle to overthrow the authority, a figure who is god-like in the books. weitz, who directed american pie and about a boy, said new line feared that any anti-religiosity in the film would make the project "unviable financially". he said: "all my best efforts will be directed towards keeping the film as liberating and iconoclastic an experience as i can. "but there may be some modification of terms."  weitz said he had visited pullman, who had told him that the authority could "represent any arbitrary establishment that curtails the freedom of the individual, whether it be religious, political, totalitarian, fundamentalist, communist, what have you". he added: "i have no desire to change the nature or intentions of the villains of the piece, but they may appear in more subtle guises." there are a number of christian websites which attack the trilogy for their depiction of the church and of god, but pullman has denied his books are anti-religious. his agent told the times newspaper that pullman was happy with the adaptation so far. "of course new line want to make money, but mr weitz is a wonderful director and philip is very supportive. "you have to recognise that it is a challenge in the climate of bush's america," mcconnell in 'drunk' remark row  scotland's first minister has told a group of high school pupils that it is okay to get drunk "once in a while".  jack mcconnell was speaking to more than 100 secondary pupils from schools in the highlands about the problems of binge drinking and drink promotions. he has been criticised by the snp for encouraging young people to get drunk. but the scottish executive has insisted mr mcconnell was speaking about adults and his comments were "a recognition that people will get drunk". the first minister's comments came in a question and answer session at glenurquhart high school in inverness, attended by pupils from a number of secondary schools. a highland councillor who was at the event has also defended mr mcconnell. margaret davidson, the independent member for the loch ness west, said the first minister was speaking in a very general way and she was sure he was speaking about adults at the time.  when one pupil asked mr mcconnell how the executive proposed to tackle under-age drinking, began his response with the quip: "i'm sure there's no under-age drinking in the highlands." he went on to speak about the evils of binge drinking and railed against irresponsible drinks promotions. he said: "i hope i'm not going to be seen as preaching to anybody here but the really serious problem at the moment is binge drinking and the impact it has on people's health and their ability to control what's happening round about them." mr mcconnell said he regularly saw reports on the effects of binge drinking sprees which ended in assaults or even rapes, and on the health consequences of binge drinking. "the one thing we are going to do something really serious about is binge drinking and irresponsible drinks promotions that can help lead to that," he said. "far too many pub chains in particular are selling far too much booze far too cheaply and encouraging people to drink it far too quickly. "we are go to clamp down on that and make those promotions illegal in the hope that people can enjoy a drink sensibly over the course of an evening."  he added: "by all means get drunk once in a while - but do not get into a situation where people are being encouraged to get completely incapable just to save some money and drink more quickly." snp holyrood leader nicola sturgeon said: "this is an incredible gaffe by jack mcconnell. "we all know that under-age drinking is an issue in scotland but it is quite staggering that any politician, particularly the first minister, should encourage young people to get drunk. "the first minister should withdraw these remarks immediately." but an executive spokeswoman insisted mr mcconnell had made the remark with adults, not youngsters, in mind. "he was talking in the context of adults binge drinking and irresponsible drinks promotions - which are for the over-18s," she said. "it was just a recognition that people will get drunk, but that binge drinking and drinks promotions that encourage it are not acceptable." lewis-francis turns to christie  mark lewis-francis has stepped up his preparations for the new season by taking advice from british sprint icon linford christie.  the 22-year-old is set to compete at sheffield this weekend and will then take on maurice greene and kim collins in birmingham on 18 february. "training in wales and getting advice from linford christie is broadening my mind," said lewis-francis. the sprinter has also shed weight since winning relay gold at the athens games. "last year i was 91kg, now i am 86.9kg - hopefully my times will come down," he said. "this has been brought about by eating the right foods and cutting out the snacks. it is just discipline and being more focused about what i am doing.  "i am still keeping up my weights work and i can see the improvement in my running." despite playing his part in britain's successful 4x100m relay team, lewis-francis still feels the frustration of missing out on the individual 100m final at the 2004 olympics. "that was heartbreaking, but i had made it to the semi-final and for me, on a personal level, that was an achievement. "i just have to be patient and build up for the next olympics. that is my goal and whatever i do between now and then will be geared to making the final." what high-definition will do to dvds  first it was the humble home video, then it was the dvd, and now hollywood is preparing for the next revolution in home entertainment - high-definition.  high-definition gives incredible, 3d-like pictures and surround sound. the dvd disks and the gear to play them will not be out for another year or so, and there at are still a number of issues to be sorted out. but when high-definition films do come out on the new format dvds, it will profoundly change home entertainment. for rick dean, director of business development for digital content company thx, a high-definition future is an exciting prospect. he has worked on the star wars dvd trilogy, finding nemo, the incredibles and indiana jones. "there was a time not so long ago when the film world and the video world were two completely separate worlds," he told the bbc news website.  "the technology we are dealing with now means they are very much conjoined. "the film that we see in theatres is coming from the same digital file that we take the home video master," he says. but currently, putting a master feature film onto dvd requires severe compression because current dvd technology cannot hold as much as high-definition films demand. "as much as you compress the picture data rate wise, you also take qualities away from the picture that we fight so hard to keep in the master," he explains. "i would love to be able to show people what projects that we worked on really look like in the high-def world and i find it very exciting."  high-definition dvds can hold up to six times more data than the dvds we are used to. it will take time though to persuade people who spent money on dvd players to buy the different players and displays required to watch high-definition dvds in 18 months' time. mr dean is confident though: "i think if they see real hd [high-definition], not some heavily compressed version of it, there is such a remarkable difference. "i have heard comments from people who say the images pop off the screen."  high-definition will mean some changes for those working behind the scenes too. on the whole, producing films for high-definition dvds will be easier in some ways because less compression is needed. equally, it may mean hollywood studios ask for more to be put onto the average dvd. "when we master movies right now, our data rates are running at about 1.2 gigabits per second," says mr dean. "our dvds that we put out today have to be squashed down to about five or six megabits per second. "that's a huge amount of compression that has to be applied - about 98%. so if you have anything that allows more space, you don't have to compress so hard." studios could fit a lot more marketing material, games, and features, onto high-capacity dvds. currently, an entire dvd project can take up to three months, says mr dean. although the step of down-converting will be bypassed, this will realistically only save a day's work, says mr dean. one of the most time consuming elements is building dvd navigation and menu systems. on the fairly complex star wars disks, making sure the menu buttons worked took 45 human hours alone. if studios want to cash in on the extra space, it could mean extra human hours, for which someone has to pay. "if the decision on the studio side is that they are going to put a lot more on these disks, it could be more expensive because of all the extra navigation that is required." and if studios do focus on delivering more "added value content", thinks mr dean, ultimately it could mean that they will want more money for it. those costs could filter down to the price ticket on a high-definition dvd. but if the consumer is not willing to pay a premium price, studios will listen, thinks mr dean.  high-definition throws up other challenge to film makers and dvd production alike. more clarity on screen means film makers have to make doubly sure that attention to detail is meticulous. "when we did the first hd version of star wars episode i, everybody was very sun-tanned, but that was make-up. "in the hd version of episode i, all these make-up lines showed up," explains mr dean. the restoration of the older star wars episodes revealed some interesting items too.  "there are scans of a corridor [on the death star] and fairly plainly in one of those shots, there is a file cabinet stuck behind one of the doorways. "you never used to be able to see it because things are just blurred enough during the pan that you just didn't see it." what high-definition revolution ultimately means is that the line between home entertainment and cinema worlds will blur. with home theatre systems turning living rooms into cinemas, this line blurs even further. it could also mean that how we get films, and in what format, will widen. "in the future we are going to look towards file delivery over ip [internet protocol - broadband], giving a dvd-like experience from the set-top box to the hard drive," says mr dean. but that is some time off for most, and for now, people still like to show off something physical in their bookshelves. profits slide at india's dr reddy  profits at indian drugmaker dr reddy's fell 93% as research costs rose and sales flagged.  the firm said its profits were 40m rupees ($915,000; £486,000) for the three months to december on sales which fell 8% to 4.7bn rupees. dr reddy's has built its reputation on producing generic versions of big-name pharmaceutical products. but competition has intensified and the firm and the company is short on new product launches. the most recent was the annoucement in december 2000 that it had won exclusive marketing rights for a generic version of the famous anti-depressant prozac from its maker, eli lilly. it also lost a key court case in march 2004, banning it from selling a version of pfizer's popular hypertension drug norvasc in the us. research and development of new drugs is continuing apace, with r&d spending rising 37% to 705m rupees - a key cause of the decrease in profits alongside the fall in sales. patents on a number of well-known products are due to run out in the near future, representing an opportunity for dr reddy, whose shares are listed in new york, and other indian generics manufacturers.  sales in dr reddy's generics business fell 8.6% to 966m rupees. another staple of the the firm's business, the sale of ingredients for drugs, also performed poorly. sales were down more than 25% from the previous year to 1.4bn rupees in the face of strong competition both at home, and in the us and europe. dr reddy's indian competitors are gathering strength although they too face heavy competitive pressures. aviator wins top globes accolades  the aviator has been named best film at the golden globe awards, with its star leonardo dicaprio named best actor.  hollywood veteran clint eastwood took the best director prize for million dollar baby while its star hilary swank was best actress. quirky comedy sideways was named best screenplay and best comedy. ray star jamie foxx was best actor in a musical/comedy while briton clive owen and natalie portman won prizes for best supporting roles in closer.  the aviator, in which dicaprio plays millionaire howard hughes, edged ahead of its rivals at the beverly hills ceremony by winning the best original score prize. this give it a total of three awards while million dollar baby, sideways and closer took two golden globes each. accepting his best dramatic actor prize, dicaprio described director martin scorsese as "one of the greatest contributors to the world of cinema of all time".  annette bening won best actress in a musical/comedy for being julia while spanish movie the sea inside was named best foreign language film. swank, who previously won the golden globe and oscar for boys don't cry, paid tribute to million dollar baby director and co-star clint eastwood. "you guided us so brilliantly, while you also, in my humble opinion, gave the performance of your career," she said. foxx was nominated for three awards but was beaten to the best supporting actor title by owen and the best actor in a tv movie prize by geoffrey rush in the life and death of peter sellers.  a bbc co-production, the life and death of peter sellers was also named best tv movie. mick jagger and dave stewart won the best original song award for old habits die hard from movie re-make alfie, while ian mcshane was named best actor in a tv drama for his lead role in deadwood.  other uk hopes kate winslet and imelda staunton went home empty-handed despite lead actress nominations for eternal sunshine of the spotless mind and vera drake respectively. winning a golden globe is said to improve a film or performer's chance of subsequently winning an academy award. unlike the oscars, the golden globes split awards by genre - one prize for dramas and the other for musicals and comedies. the globes also honour the best in television, with suburban series desperate housewives named best tv comedy show. actress teri hatcher beat fellow desperate housewives stars marcia cross and felicity huffman to the best comedy actress prize.  hatcher thanked the show's cast, crew and "a network who gave me a second chance at a career when i couldn't have been a bigger 'has been'". cosmetic surgery series nip/tuck beat the sopranos and deadwood to the best television drama title. arrested development star jason bateman was named best tv actor in a musical or comedy series. the golden globes are awarded by the hollywood foreign press association, comprising film reporters based in los angeles and working for overseas outlets. robin williams, a five-time globe winner for such films as the fisher king and good morning, vietnam, received the cecil b demille award for career achievement. he dedicated his prize to superman actor christopher reeve, who died last year. brown hits back in blair rift row  gordon brown has criticised a union leader who said conflict between himself and tony blair was harming the workings of government.  jonathan baume, of the top civil servants' union, spoke of "competing agendas" between mr brown and mr blair. but the chancellor said mr baume was never at meetings between himself and the prime minister so could not judge. he said the union leader was trying to block civil service reform which threatened his members' jobs. it suited the purpose of mr baume's union, the first division association, to suggest there were two agendas battling against each other because the union was trying to resist the planned reforms, mr brown told bbc radio 4's today programme.  under the plans, unveiled in the gershon report, some 84,000 civil servants jobs will be axed or changed and the savings ploughed back into frontline services. mr brown said: "to be honest i don't think you can rely on his [mr baume's] judgement on this matter when it comes to the decisions that the government are making. "mr blair and i are making exactly the same decisions on civil service reforms. we are determined to go on with the gershon reforms." he also said that as mr baume was never present at meetings between himself and the prime minister, he was not in a position to judge. on wednesday, ahead of the chancellor's pre-budget report, mr baume told bbc news there were sometimes "conflicting and competing agendas for government" between number 10 and the treasury.  what the chancellor wanted was "not by any means what alan milburn and the prime minister want to see", mr baume said. "government departments get their money from the treasury on the basis of public service agreements they sign up to, but at the same time the prime minister also has an agenda and that's not necessarily the same as the treasury's and the prime minister is of course a very powerful figure in any government. "he also sends instructions and messages and directions to departments about how he would like each secretary of state and each department to implement a policy agenda. "the problem is that on many occasions these two don't add up and individual cabinet ministers as well as departments have to make sense of this battle." number 10 said ministers were interested in governing and not a "soap opera" about mr blair and mr brown. tory shadow chancellor oliver letwin said: "the battle royal that the top civil servants are now reporting on between the chancellor and tony blair is preventing them both from getting on with the business of getting taxpayers value for money." man utd stroll to cup win  wayne rooney made a winning return to everton as manchester united cruised into the fa cup quarter-finals.  rooney received a hostile reception, but goals in each half from quinton fortune and cristiano ronaldo silenced the jeers at goodison park. fortune headed home after 23 minutes before ronaldo scored when nigel martyn parried paul scholes' free-kick. marcus bent missed everton's best chance when roy carroll, who was later struck by a missile, saved at his feet.  rooney's return was always going to be a potential flashpoint, and he was involved in an angry exchange with a spectator even before kick-off. and rooney's every touch was met with a deafening chorus of jeers from the crowd that once idolised the 19-year-old. everton started brightly and fortune needed to be alert to scramble away a header from bent near the goal-line. but that was the cue for united to take complete control with a supreme passing display on a goodison park pitch that was cutting up. fortune gave united the lead after 23 minutes, rising to meet ronaldo's cross from eight yards after the portuguese youngster had been allowed too much time and space by the hapless gary naysmith. united dominated without creating too many clear-cut chances, and they almost paid the price for not making the most of their domination two minutes before half-time. mikel arteta played a superb ball into the area but bent, played onside by gabriel heintze, hesitated and carroll plunged at his fee to save. united almost doubled their lead after 48 minutes when ronaldo's low drive from 25 yards took a deflection off tony hibbert, but martyn dived to save brilliantly. and martyn came to everton's rescue three minutes later when rooney's big moment almost arrived as he raced clean through, but once again the veteran keeper was in outstanding form. but there was nothing martyn could do when united doubled their lead after 57 minutes as they doubled their advantage. scholes' free-kick took a deflection, and martyn could only parry the ball out for ronaldo, who reacted first to score easily. everton's problems worsened when james mcfadden limped off with an injury. and there may be further trouble ahead for everton after goalkeeper carroll required treatment after he was struck on the head by a missile thrown from behind the goal. rooney's desperate search for a goal on his return to everton was halted again by martyn in injury-time when he outpaced stubbs, but once again martyn denied the england striker.  - manchester united coach sir alex ferguson: "it was a fantastic performance by us. in fairness i think everton have missed a couple of players and got some young players out. "the boy ronaldo is a fantastic player. he's persistent and never gives in. "i don't know how many fouls he had he gets up and wants the ball again, he's truly a fabulous player." everton: martyn, hibbert, yobo, stubbs, naysmith, osman, carsley, arteta, kilbane, mcfadden, bent. subs: wright, pistone, weir, plessis, vaughan. manchester united: carroll, gary neville, brown, ferdinand, heinze, ronaldo, phil neville, keane, scholes, fortune, rooney. subs: howard, giggs, smith, miller, spector. referee: r styles (hampshire) mobile games come of age  the bbc news website takes a look at how games on mobile phones are maturing. a brief round-up follows but you can skip straight to the reviews by clicking on the links below.  if you think of snake when some mentions "mobile games" then you could be in for a bit of a surprise. this is because mobile games have come a long way in a very short time. even before nokia's n-gage game phone launched in late 2003, many mobile operators were realising that there was an audience looking for something to play on their handset.  and given that many more people own handsets than own portable game playing gadgets such as the gameboy it could be a very lucrative market. that audience includes commuters wanting something to fill their time on the way home, game fans looking for a bit of variety and hard core gamers who like to play every moment they can. life for all these types of player has got immeasurably better in the last year as the numbers of titles you can download to your phone has snowballed. now sites such as wireless gaming review list more than 200 different titles for some uk networks and the ranges suit every possible taste. there are ports of pc and arcade classics such as space invaders, lunar lander and bejewelled. there are also versions of titles, such as colin mcrae rally, that you typically find on pcs and consoles.  there are shoot-em-ups, adventure games, strategy titles and many novel games only found on handsets. rarely now does an action movie launch without a mobile game tie-in. increasingly such launches are all part of the promotional campaign for a film, understandable when you realise that a good game can rack up millions of downloads. the returns can be pretty good when you consider that some games cost £5. what has also helped games on mobiles thrive is the fact that it is easier than ever to get hold of them thanks to technology known as wap push. by sending a text message to a game maker you can have the title downloaded to your handset. far better than having to navigate through the menus of most mobile operator portals. the number of handsets that can play games has grown hugely too. almost half of all phones now have java onboard meaning that they can play the increasingly sophisticated games that are available - even the ones that use 3d graphics.  the minimum technology specifications that phones should adhere to are getting more sophisticated which means that games are too. now double key presses are possible making familiar tactics such as moving and strafing a real option. the processing power on handsets means that physics on mobile games is getting more convincing and the graphics are improving too. some game makers are also starting to take advantage of the extra capabilities in a mobile. many titles, particularly racing games, let you upload your best time to see how you compare to others. usually you can get hold of their best time and race against a "ghost" or "shadow" to see if you can beat them. a few games also let you take on people in real time via the network or, if you are sitting close to them, via bluetooth short-range radio technology. with so much going on it is hard to do justice to the sheer diversity of what is happening. but these two features should help point you in the direction of the game makers and give you an idea of where to look and how to get playing.   too fast too furious (digital bridges)   as soon as i start playing this i remember why i never play driving games - because i'm rubbish at them. no matter if i drive the car via joystick or keypad i just cannot get the hang of braking for corners or timing a rush to pass other drivers. the game rewards replay because to advance you have to complete every section within a time limit. winning gives you cash for upgrades. graphically the rolling road is a convincing enough evocation of speed as the palm trees and cactus whip by and the city scrolls past in the background. the cars handle pretty well despite my uselessness but it was not clear if the different models of cars were appreciably different on the track. the only niggle was that the interface was a bit confusing especially when using a joystick rather than the keypad to play.   fatal force (macrospace)   a futuristic shooter that lets you either play various deathmatch modes against your phone or run through a series of scenarios that involves killing aliens invading earth. graphics are a bit cartoon-like but only helps to make clear what is going on and levels are well laid out and encourage you to leap about exploring. both background music and sounds effects work well. the scenarios are well scripted and you regularly get hints from the fatal force commanders. weapons include flamethrowers, rocket launchers, grenades and at a couple of points you even get chance to use a mech for a short while. with the right power-up you can go into a matrix-style bullet time to cope with the onslaught of aliens. the game lets you play via bluetooth if others are in range. online the game has quite a following with clans, player rankings and even new downloadable maps. burren awarded egyptian contracts  british energy firm burren energy has been awarded two potentially lucrative oil exploration contracts in egypt.  the company successfully bid for the two contracts, granted by government owned oil firms, covering onshore and offshore areas in the gulf of suez. burren energy already has a presence in egypt, having been awarded an exploration contract last year. the firm, which floated in 2003, recently announced a deal to buy 26% of indian firm hindustan oil exploration. the £13.8m deal gives burren energy access to the indian oil and gas industry. this latest contract expands burren energy's global exploration and production portfolio - it also holds contracts in turkmenistan and the republic of congo. "these assets significantly increase our exploration portfolio in egypt and we continue to investigate further opportunities in this region," said chief executive finian o'sullivan. singer's film to show at festival  a documentary which takes a candid look at the life of chart-topping singer george michael will be shown at this year's berlin film festival.  a different story will screen in the panorama section of the festival, which runs from 10-20 february. it features the singer talking about both his career and his personal life, from his days in wham! through to more recent events. michael will attend the festival to introduce the screening on 16 february. director southan morris and executive producer andy stephens will also attend the festival.  the 93 minute film will see michael discussing his early days in wham! along with his later career, including his legal battles with record label sony and his stance against the iraq war and american politics. it will also touch upon his turbulent personal life, including his arrest in a beverly hills park toilet in 1998 for "lewd behaviour", and the death of his boyfriend anselmo feleppa from aids. the film, which includes previously unseen footage of the singer also features contributions from michael's former wham! partner andrew ridgeley, as well as ex-wham! backing singers pepsi and shirlie. other contributors include sting, mariah carey, elton john, noel gallagher, geri halliwell and simon cowell. this year's festival will open with man to man, a historical epic starring joseph fiennes and kristin scott-thomas. it will be one of 21 films competing for the festival's top prize, the golden bear. other films in competition will include the life aquatic, a quirky comedy starring bill murray, and the biopic kinsey, which features liam neeson. the full programme will be announced on 1 february. tories 'would cut number of mps'  the conservative party would cut the number of mps by about one-fifth if they were elected, tory leader michael howard has said.  the plan forms part of the party's "smaller government bill", to be unveiled later this week. mr howard told the sunday times the party would also reduce the number of government special advisers. and he said a referendum would be held in wales to decide whether or not to scrap the welsh assembly.  the changes would all take place within five years of the conservatives winning a general election, mr howard told the paper.  the precise number of mps to go would depend on the result of the welsh referendum, but it would probably mean a reduction of around 120 from the current total of 659. if wales decided to keep its assembly it would stand to lose more mps. mr howard said as both parties planned to cut the number of civil servants at whitehall - labour by more than 80,000 and the tories by almost 100,000 - they should accept a similar drop in their own numbers. "it is all very well saying government departments should be reduced, but what about ministers, parliament and special advisers?" he said. shadow leader of the commons oliver heald said: "this will be part of our aim to reduce unnecessary and costly interference in people's lives by reducing the size and role of the state".  mr howard said the plan would also even out the "great unfairness" of there being proportionately more scottish and welsh mps at westminster than those from england. the average size of an english constituency was 70,000 people, mr howard said. in northern ireland it was just over 66,000, in wales just over 59,000 and in scotland 53,000. the number of welsh mps would be set at an amount that was "consistent and fair in terms of representation with the rest of the united kingdom" if the assembly was scrapped. mr howard said the changes should be carried out quickly and could even be implemented by the election after next. "you have got to have a big bang. we don't want this like the house of lords reform, getting to one stage and then not having the next stage." van nistelrooy set to return  manchester united striker ruud van nistelrooy may make his comeback after an achilles tendon injury in the fa cup fifth round tie at everton on saturday.  he has been out of action for nearly three months and had targeted a return in the champions league tie with ac milan on 23 february. but manchester united manager sir alex ferguson hinted he may be back early. he said: "there is a chance he could be involved at everton but we'll just have to see how he comes through training." the 28-year-old has been training in holland and ferguson said: "ruud comes back on tuesday and we need to assess how far on he is. "the training he has been doing in holland has been perfect and i am very satisfied with it." even without van nistelrooy, united made it 13 wins in 15 league games with a 2-0 derby victory at manchester city on sunday. but they will be boosted by the return of the dutch international, who is the club's top scorer this season with 12 goals. he has not played since aggravating the injury in the 3-0 win against west brom on 27 november. ferguson was unhappy with van nistelrooy for not revealing he was carrying an injury. united have also been hit by injuries to both alan smith and louis saha during van nistelrooy's absence, meaning wayne rooney has sometimes had to play in a lone role up front. the teenager has responded with six goals in nine games, including the first goal against city on sunday. california sets fines for spyware  the makers of computer programs that secretly spy on what people do with their home pcs could face hefty fines in california.  from 1 january, a new law is being introduced to protect computer users from software known as spyware. the legislation, which was approved by governor arnold schwarzenegger, is designed to safeguard people from hackers and help protect their personal information. spyware is considered by computer experts to be one of the biggest nuisance and security threats facing pc users in the coming year. the software buries itself in computers and can collect a wide range of information. at its worst, it has the ability to hijack personal data, like passwords, login details and credit card numbers. the programs are so sophisticated they change frequently and become impossible to eradicate.  one form of spyware called adware has the ability to collect information on a computer user's web-surfing. it can result in people being bombarded with pop-up ads that are hard to close. in washington, congress has been debating four anti-spyware bills, but california is a step ahead. the state's consumer protection against spyware act bans the installation of software that takes control of another computer. it also requires companies and websites to disclose whether their systems will install spyware. consumers are able to seek up to $1,000 in damages if they think they have fallen victim to the intrusive software. the new law marks a continuing trend in california towards tougher privacy rights. a recent survey by earthlink and webroot found that 90% of pcs are infested with the surreptitious software and that, on average, each one is harbouring 28 separate spyware programs. currently users wanting protection from spyware have turned to free programs such as spybot and ad-aware. 'strong dollar' call halts slide  the us dollar's slide against the euro and yen has halted after us treasury secretary john snow said a strong dollar was "in america's interest".  but analysts said any gains are likely to be short-lived as problems with the us economy were still significant. they also pointed out that positive comments apart, president george w bush's administration had done little to stop the dollar's slide. a weak dollar helps boost exports and narrow the current account deficit. the dollar was trading at $1.2944 against the euro at 2100gmt, still close to the $1.3006 record level set on 10 november. against the japanese yen, it was trading at 105.28 yen, after hitting a seven-month low of 105.17 earlier in the day.  policy makers in europe have called the dollar's slide "brutal" and have blamed the strength of the euro for dampening economic growth. however, it is unclear whether ministers would issue a declaration aimed at curbing the euro's rise at a monthly meeting of eurozone ministers late on monday. higher growth in europe is regarded by us officials as a way the huge us current account deficit - that has been weighing on the dollar - could be reduced. mr snow who is currently in dublin at the start of a four-nation eu visit, has applauded ireland's introduction of lower taxes and deregulation which have helped boost growth. "the eurozone is growing below its potential. when a major part of the global economy is below potential there are negative consequences... for the citizens of those economies... and for their trading partners," he said. mr snow's comments may have helped shore up the dollar on monday, but he was careful to qualify his statement.  "our basic policy, of course, is to let open, competitive markets set the values," he explained. "markets are driven by fundamentals and towards fundamentals." us officials have also said that other economies need to grow, so the us is not the main global growth engine. economists say that the fundamentals, or key indicators, of the us economy are looking far from rosy. domestic consumer demand is cooling, and heavy spending by president bush has pushed the budget deficit to a record $427bn (£230bn). the current account deficit, meanwhile, hit a record $166bn in the second quarter of 2004. for many analysts, a weaker dollar is here to stay. "no end is in sight," said carsten fritsch, a strategist at commerzbank . "it is only a matter of time until the euro reaches $1.30." some analysts maintain the us is secretly happy with a lower dollar which helps makes its exports cheaper in europe, thus boosting its economy. surprise win for anti-bush film  michael moore's anti-bush documentary fahrenheit 9/11 has won best film at the us people's choice awards, voted for by the us public.  mel gibson's the passion of the christ won best drama, despite both films being snubbed so far at us film awards in the run-up to february's oscars. julia roberts won her 10th consecutive crown as favourite female movie star. johnny depp was favourite male movie star and renee zellweger was favourite leading lady at sunday's awards in la.  film sequel shrek 2 took three prizes - voted top animated movie, top film comedy and top sequel. in television categories, desperate housewives was named top new drama and joey, starring former friends actor matt leblanc, was best new comedy. long-running shows will and grace and csi: crime scene investigation were named best tv comedy and tv drama respectively.  nominees for the people's choice awards were picked by a 6,000-strong entertainment weekly magazine panel, and winners were subsequently chosen by 21 million online voters. fahrenheit 9/11 director michael moore dedicated his trophy to soldiers in iraq. his film was highly critical of president george w bush and the us-led invasion of iraq, and moore was an outspoken bush critic in the 2004 presidential campaign inwhich democratic challenger john kerry lost.  "this country is still all of ours, not right or left or democrat or republican," moore told the audience at the ceremony in pasadena, california. moore said it was "an historic occasion" that the 31-year-old awards ceremony would name a documentary its best film. unlike many other film-makers, passion of the christ director mel gibson has vowed not to campaign for an oscar for his movie. "to me, really, this is the ultimate goal because one doesn't make work for the elite," gibson said backstage at the event. "to me, the people have spoken." uk plan to deport terror suspects  deals are being sought to allow the uk to deport terror suspects to their home countries without risk of them being tortured or sentenced to death.  home secretary charles clarke told the times he hoped agreement with several countries could be reached. the move follows a law lords judgement that the detention of 12 men at belmarsh prison, london, and woodhill, milton keynes, was unlawful. the 12 affected by the ruling are from algeria, tunisia, egypt and jordan. the government was told that using anti-terror legislation brought in after 11 september to hold the men indefinitely without charge broke human rights laws.  mr clarke told the times: "i think we should be prosecuting much more energetically our ability to deport the individuals concerned to the countries from which they come." he said it was a route that was being pursued in collaboration with foreign secretary jack straw "in a very positive way". mr clarke said that he was seeking "memorandums of understanding" between overseas governments and britain to ensure suspects would not be subjected to the death penalty on their return. however, he added: "i do not think the solution to the law lords' judgement for this government is in deportations, but they will help. "there are other strands that we have to do." but the liberal democrat's shadow home secretary, mark oaten, accused mr clarke of avoiding the main issue with the belmarsh detainees.  "the critical issue that the home secretary is dodging at this stage is to deal with the very principle, to deal with how we tackle this problem in the future," he told bbc news. "and i do want him to grasp those issues and that means looking at how we can actually secure convictions in this country allowing, for example, intercept communications, telephone tapping to be included," mr oaten said. "deportation may tackle this initial problem but i want to see a wider debate urgently about how we can actually get trials and convictions in this country." "unless we get that, the liberal democrats will vote against this measure when it comes for renewal in march."  the bbc's home affairs correspondent, daniel sandford, said it appeared mr clarke was putting more emphasis on the possibility of deportation than his predecessor, david blunkett. but he said reaching an understanding with some of the detainees' home countries could be difficult. "some of these people are accused of very, very serious crimes in their home countries so it's not an easy agreement to get and i think for some of these suspects it won't be the solution." daniel sandford said ministers may try to put forward other solutions - such as allowing more secret evidence to be put into normal criminal trials or developing a more secret trials process - in the next few weeks. "the government may try and deport some of them and then those that are left see if they can work out some way of putting them on trial," he said. moyes u-turn on beattie dismissal  everton manager david moyes will discipline striker james beattie after all for his headbutt on chelsea defender william gallas.  the scot initially defended beattie, whose dismissal put everton on the back foot in a game they ultimately lost 1-0, saying gallas overreacted. but he has had a rethink after looking over the video evidence again. he said: "i believe that i should set the record straight by conceding that the dismissal was right and correct." moyes added: "my comments on saturday came immediately after the final whistle and at a point when i had only had the opportunity to see one, very quick re-run of the incident."  the club website also reported that beattie, who seemed unrepentant after saturday's match, insisting gallas "would have stayed down a lot longer" if he had headbutted him, has now apologised. moyes continued: "although the incident was totally out of character - james has never even been suspended before in his career - his actions were unacceptable and had a detrimental effect on his team-mates. "james did issue a formal apology to myself, his team-mates and to the everton supporters immediately after the game and that was the right thing to have done. he will now be subjected to the normal club discipline. "he is a competitive player but a fair player and i know how upset he is by what has happened. however, i must say that i do still believe the chelsea player in question did go down too easily." speaking immediately after the game, moyes said: "i don't think it was a sending-off, i have been a centre-half in my time and i would have been ashamed to have gone down as easily as that.  "not in a million years would john terry have gone down in the same way. i have never heard of anybody butting somebody from behind while you are running after them. "what has happened to big, strong centre-halves? i thought it was a push initially and i still don't think it was a sending-off." an angry beattie initially said: "he (gallas) would have stayed down a lot longer if i had headbutted him. "i can tell you it wasn't an intentional headbutt. we were chasing a ball into the corner and william gallas was looking over his shoulder and blocking me off. "he was stopping as we were running and i said to myself 'if you're going to stay in my way i'll go straight over you'. our heads barely touched and it wasn't an intentional headbutt." web helps collect aid donations  the web is helping aid agencies gather resources to help cope with the aftermath of the tsunami disaster.  many people are making donations via websites or going online to see how they can get involved with aid efforts. high-profile web portals such as google, yahoo, ebay and amazon are gathering links that lead people to aid and relief organisations. so many were visiting some aid-related sites that some webpages were struggling to cope with the traffic. an umbrella organisation called the disasters emergency committee (dec) has been set up by a coalition of 12 charities and has been taking many donations via its specially created website. it urged people to go online where possible to help because donations could be processed more quickly than cash donated in other ways, meaning aid could be delivered as quickly as possible. the site has so far received almost £8 million, with more than 11,000 donations being made online every hour.  telco bt stepped in to take over the secure payments on the dec site and provided extra logistical support for phone and online appeals after it was initially crippled with online donations. it has also provided space in london's bt tower for one of the call centres dealing with donations.  some of the web's biggest firms are also helping to channel help by modifying their homepages to include links to aid agencies and organisations collecting resources. on its famously sparse homepage google has placed a link that leads users to a list of sites where donations can be made. among the 17 organisations listed are oxfam, medecins sans frontieres (doctors without borders) and network for good. many of the sites that google lists are also taking online donations. online retailer amazon has put a large message on its start page that lets people donate money directly to the american red cross that will be used with relief efforts. auction site ebay is giving a list of sites that people can either donate directly to, divert a portion of their profits from anything they sell on ebay to the listed organisations or simply buy items that direct cash to those in the list. yahoo is proving links direct to charities for those that want to donate. the auction drop website is asking people to donate old digital cameras, computers and other gadgets they no longer want that can be auction to raise cash for the aid effort. sadly, the outpouring of goodwill has also encouraged some conmen to try to cash in. anti-fraud organisations are warning about e-mails that are starting to circulate which try to convince people to send money directly to them rather than make donations via aid agencies. those wanting to give cash were urged to use legitimate websites of charities and aid agencies. imf 'cuts' german growth estimate  the international monetary fund is to cut its 2005 growth forecast for the german economy from 1.8% to 0.8%, the financial times deutschland reported.  the imf will also reduce its growth estimate for the 12-member eurozone economy from 2.2% to 1.6%, the newspaper reported. the german economy has been faltering, with unemployment levels rising to a seventy-year high of 5.2 million. its sluggish performance continues to hamper the entire eurozone.  the imf's draft world economic outlook - due to be published in april - would point to a marked deterioration in germany's economy, the ft report said.  in september, the imf had said that german growth for the current year would be 1.8%. the imf has also revised eurozone forecasts, the paper said, taking into account high oil prices, the strength of the euro and weak demand in many of the world's leading economies. europe's economic difficulties have been highlighted by the organisation for economic co-operation and development, which argued in a report published on tuesday that the continent could only achieve us living standards by freeing up its labour markets. "the eurozone does not look like it has a self-sustaining recovery," james carrick, an economist with abn amro, told the newspaper. "it is too dependant on the rest of the world." da vinci film to star tom hanks  actor tom hanks and director ron howard are reuniting for the da vinci code, an adaptation of the international best-selling novel by dan brown.  distributor sony pictures said production will begin next year, with a planned release in may 2006. hanks will play robert langdon, who is trying to solve the murder of a member of an ancient society that has protected dark secrets for centuries. it will be hanks' third collaboration with howard. they previously worked together, along with howard's producing partner brian grazer, on splash and apollo 13.  hanks is one of hollywood's most bankable stars, with his presence in a movie almost guaranteeing box office success. brown's book has become a publishing phenomenon, consistently topping book charts in the uk and us. it has sold more than eight million copies worldwide in little over two years. it is a classic whodunit, which centres on a global conspiracy surrounding the holy grail mythology and places heavy emphasis on symbols and cryptography. its protagonist is a harvard professor likened to a contemporary indiana jones, who also appeared in brown's first book angels and demons. the tale mixes art history with mythology, semiotics with medieval history. ministers deny care sums 'wrong'  ministers have insisted they are committed to free personal care for the elderly despite research suggesting the cost of the policy was under-estimated.  a report by the fraser of allander institute says the decision to push ahead with the flagship policy was based on flawed research. deputy health minister rhona brankin has pledged to study the research. snp holyrood leader nicola sturgeon said the public needed reassurance that the care programme was secure.  the rise in costs stems from a series of mistakes in the research used by the "care development group" of scottish executive experts who prepared the original costings, according to findings published in the quarterly economic commentary of strathclyde university's fraser of allander institute. "dubious" assumptions about improving health expectancy could drive the cost of the policy up by another £130m by 2022, the report warned.  it was carried out by husband and wife economist team jim and margaret cuthbert. but ms brankin told bbc radio scotland: "we don't think we got our sums wrong. "obviously we will examine the findings of this new report, along with figures from our own research that we have already commissioned. "we will look in great detail at any contribution to this, because we need to be sure we can provide free personal care and nursing care for our older people into the future. "and we are absolutely committed to doing that."  but the scottish national party called on ministers to reassure people that enough funding is in place to support the free personal care policy. ms sturgeon said that while she had no reason to doubt the executive's support for the policy, there were questions which needed to be answered and, if necessary, sums redone. she said: "serious concerns have been raised and there are questions which need to be answered by the scottish executive. "we need to know that the money is there, not just for this year or next year, but into the future so that older people, and those who are looking forward to older age, can rest assured that their personal care needs will be met." ronaldo considering new contract  manchester united winger cristiano ronaldo said he is close to agreeing to a new contract at old trafford.  the portugal star, who joined in august 2003 on a five-year-deal, is a regular in the united first-team. "the united board have already made an offer to renew the contract but i'm trying not to think about it," he told the news of the world. "my agent has spoken with the club and it will be resolved soon. i think we'll reach a good agreement for both sides." ronaldo refused to commit his long-term future to the club.  "nobody knows what will come tomorrow. i like being here, but who knows," he added. "there aren't many bigger and better clubs than this one. it's my ambition to be at a big club. i'm happy but nobody knows the future." mobiles rack up 20 years of use  mobile phones in the uk are celebrating their 20th anniversary this weekend.  britain's first mobile phone call was made across the vodafone network on 1 january 1985 by veteran comedian ernie wise. in the 20 years since that day, mobile phones have become an integral part of modern life and now almost 90% of britons own a handset. mobiles have become so popular that many people use their handset as their only phone and rarely use a landline.  the first ever call over a portable phone was made in 1973 in new york but it took 10 years for the first commercial mobile service to be launched. the uk was not far behind the rest of the world in setting up networks in 1985 that let people make calls while they walked. the first call was made from st katherine's dock to vodafone's head office in newbury which at the time was over a curry house. for the first nine days of 1985 vodafone was the only firm with a mobile network in the uk. then on 10 january cellnet (now o2) launched its service. mike caudwell, spokesman for vodafone, said that when phones were launched they were the size of a briefcase, cost about £2,000 and had a battery life of little more than 20 minutes.  "despite that they were hugely popular in the mid-80s," he said. "they became a yuppy must-have and a status symbol among young wealthy business folk." this was also despite the fact that the phones used analogue radio signals to communicate which made them very easy to eavesdrop on. he said it took vodafone almost nine years to rack up its first million customers but only 18 months to get the second million. "it's very easy to forget that in 1983 when we put the bid document in we were forecasting that the total market would be two million people," he said. "cellnet was forecasting half that." now vodafone has 14m customers in the uk alone. cellnet and vodafone were the only mobile phone operators in the uk until 1993 when one2one (now t-mobile) was launched. orange had its uk launch in 1994. both newcomers operated digital mobile networks and now all operators use this technology. the analogue spectrum for the old phones has been retired. called global system for mobiles (gsm) this is now the most widely used phone technology on the planet and is used to help more than 1.2 billion people make calls. mr caudwell said the advent of digital technology also helped to introduce all those things, such as text messaging and roaming that have made mobiles so popular. gm, ford cut output as sales fall  us car firms general motors (gm) and ford have been forced to cut production in the face of falling car sales.  us sales at gm sank 12.7% in february compared to a year ago while ford sales dropped 3% as foreign rivals took a bigger share of the market. meanwhile, asian carmakers fared well - toyota sales jumped 11% while rival nissan notched up a 10% increase. overall. sales across the industry also fell to 1.25 million vehicles from 1.27 million a year earlier.  gm and ford blamed high fuel prices for low sales of big trucks and gas-guzzling sports utility vehicles (suvs) - the vehicles that provide the biggest profits.  gm added that us truck sales fell 9% in february while car business tumbled 17%, however it did acknowledge that some new products - such as the pontiac g6 and chevrolet cobalt - had put in solid performances. "the calendar year is starting off slower than expected, both for gm and the industry," said mark laneve, gm's vice president for north american sales, service and marketing. the slump in sales prompted the group to cut production in north america by 3% - it has already reduced output by around 9% in the face of growing stockpiles. meanwhile, ford which posted its ninth consecutive drop in monthly us sales, said it was cutting first-quarter north american production by another 10,000 vehicles, or 1.2%. chrysler, the us unit of germany's daimlerchrysler, was the only detroit based automaker to boast an increase in market share during the month - with sales rising 8%.  but america's loss was its foreign rivals' gain as they continued to nibble away at the us market. while japan's top car maker toyota and nissan saw sales accelerate, even the smaller suzuki motor corp snapped up a more business with sales improving 17.6% on a year ago. in 2003, the firm launched an ambitious plan to triple us sales by 2007 as it seeks to become a bigger player in the asian assault on the us market. korea's hyundai was another big gainer, turning in a 19% surge in february sales. toyota put its rise in sales down to strong results for its redesigned avalon sedan and a 120% surge in sales of its gas-electric prius hybrid mid-size sedan as petrol-price conscious consumers looked to vehicles that were cheaper to run. "as gas prices continue their upward march, fuel efficiency catches the public eye," jim press, vice president and chief operating officer of toyota's us sales arm, said in a statement. controversial film tops festival  a controversial film starring hollywood actor kevin bacon as a convicted paedophile won top honours at the london film festival on thursday.  the woodsman won the satyajit ray award, named after the indian director. the low-budget film, directed by nicole kassell, is about a convicted child molester trying to rebuild his life after 12 years in jail. judges said the film tackled the contentious subject with "great insight and sensitivity". previous films to take the prize include the oscar-winning boys don't cry, which was about the true life story of murdered transsexual brandon teena.  british writer-director amma asante won the uk film talent award this year for her debut feature a way of life. set in south wales, the film is about a teenage single mother who becomes embroiled in a tense stand-off with a turkish neighbour. also on thursday night, the fipresci international critics awards went to aaltra, a belgian film about the handicapped; and the sutherland trophy, which was won by jonathan caouette for his film tarnation. the festival closed with a screening of the film i heart huckabees, starring jude law and dustin hoffman and directed by three kings film-maker david o russell. the festival this year also included the first european screening of the new pixar animation the incredibles, and the british film bullet boy, starring so solid crew rapper asher d. blair stresses prosperity goals  tony blair says his party's next manifesto will be "unremittingly new labour" and aimed at producing "personal prosperity for all".  the prime minister is trying to draw a line under speculation over the state of his relationship with gordon brown with the speech in chatham, kent. he is saying that prosperity means both individual wealth and ensuring "radically improved" public services. he is also claiming labour is more ideologically united than ever. mr brown is currently touring africa after a week of facing questions about reports of his splits with downing street.  with the election widely predicted for may, angry labour mps this week warned mr blair and mr brown about the dangers of disunity. now mr blair is trying to put the focus on the substance of labour's platform for a third term in government. labour made low inflation, unemployment and mortgage rates the centrepiece of a new poster campaign this week.  and on thursday mr blair is saying: "i want to talk about the central purpose ofnew labour - which is to increase personal prosperity and well-being, not justfor a few but for all. "by prosperity i mean both the income and wealth of individuals and theirfamilies, and the opportunity and security available to them through radicallyimproved public services and a reformed welfare state."  the tories are trying to capitalise on the apparent feud at the top of government. on wednesday they unveiled a poster which pictured the prime minister and mr brown under the words "how can they fight crime when they are fighting each other?" michael howard and frontbencher john redwood on thursday launched new plans to abolish hundreds of quangos. they say government is spending too much and lower taxes are needed to make britain more competitive.  the liberal democrats have also claimed infighting its obstructing good government. the latest speculation about relations between new labour's two most powerful figures came after the publication of a new book, brown's britain by robert preston. in it he alleges that mr blair told mr brown in 2003 he would step down as prime minister before the coming general election. the book claims the premier went back on his pledge after support from cabinet allies and suspicion that mr brown was manoeuvring against him. mr peston's book claimed that mr brown told mr blair: "there is nothing you could ever say to me now that i could ever believe." on wednesday mr blair directly denied mr brown made that quote, and before he left for africa on tuesday the chancellor told reporters: "of course i trust the prime minister." smith keen on home series return  scotland manager walter smith has given his backing to the reinstatement of the home international series.  such a plan is to be proposed by the new chief executive of the northern irish fa, howard wells, at the next meeting of the four home countries. the english fa has expressed doubt as to whether the fixtures could be accommodated at the end of each season. but smith said: "bringing it back would add meaning to friendly games and that's something that's needed." the home international series was done away with in 1984, with the traditional scotland-england fixture continuing until 1989. that game is one smith would be delighted to see reinstated. "the scotland v england match was a highlight of the end of the season," he added. "i was in italy for their friendly with russia last week and they made seven substitutions while only around 20,000 fans turned up to watch. "england were criticised for the 0-0 draw against holland - the way scotland were slammed in the past for poor results in friendlies. "you have to put a performance on in friendly games. if you don't, they can be de-motivating. "it can be a dangerous road to go down, if players don't apply themselves in the manner they should. "so i would support the return of the home internationals - the only problem would be fitting them in to the fixture schedule." blogs take on the mainstream  web logs or blogs are everywhere, with at least an estimated five million on the web and that number is set to grow.  these online diaries come in many shapes and styles, ranging from people willing to sharing their views, pictures and links, to companies interested in another way of reaching their customers. but this year the focus has been on blogs which cast a critical eye over news events, often writing about issues ignored by the big media or offering an eye-witness account of events. most blogs may have only a small readership, but communication experts say they have provided an avenue for people to have a say in the world of politics. the most well-known examples include iraqi salam pax's accounts of the us-led war, former iranian vice-president mohammad ali abtahi exclusive insight into the islamic republic's government, and the highs and lows of the recent us election campaign. there are already websites pulling together these first-hand reporting accounts heralded by blogs, like wikinews.com, launched last november.  the blogging movement has been building up for many years.  andrew nachison, director of the media center, a us-based think-tank that studies media, technology and society, highlights the us presidential race as a possible turning point for blogs. "you could look at that as a moment when audiences exercised a new form of power, to choose among many more sources of information than they have never had before," he says. "and blogs were a key part of that transformation." among them were blogs carrying picture messages, saying "we are sorry" for george w bush's victory and the responses from his supporters. mr nachison argues blogs have become independent sources for images and ideas that circumvent traditional sources of news and information such as newspapers, tv and radio. "we have to acknowledge that in all of these cases, mainstream media actually plays a role in the discussion and the distribution of these ideas," he told the bbc news website. "but they followed the story, they didn't lead it."  some parts of the so-called traditional media have expressed concerns about this emerging competitor, raising questions about the journalistic value of blogs.  others, like the french newspaper le monde, have applied a different strategy, offering blogs as part of its content. "i don't think the mission and role of journalism is threatened. it is in transition, as society itself is in transition," says mr nachison. however, he agrees with other experts like the linguist and political analyst noam chomsky, that mainstream media has lost the traditional role of news gatekeeper. "the one-to-many road of traditional journalism, yes, it is threatened. and professional journalists need to acclimate themselves to an environment in which there are many more contributors to the discourse," says mr nachison. "the notion of a gatekeeper who filters and decides what's acceptable for public consumption and what isn't, that's gone forever." "with people now walking around with information devices in their pockets, like camera or video phones, we are going to see more instances of ordinary citizens breaking stories."  it seems unlikely that we will end up living in a planet where every human is a blogger.  but the current number of blogs is likely to keep on growing, in a web already overloaded with information. blog analysis firm technorati estimates the number of blogs in existence, the so-called blogosphere, has already exceeded five million, and is growing at exponential levels. tools such as google's blogger, movabletype and the recently launched beta version of msn spaces are making it easier to run a blog. us research think-tank pew internet & american life says a blog is created every 5.8 seconds, although less than 40% of the total are updated at least once every two months. but experts agree that the phenomenon, allowing individuals to publish, share ideas, exchange information, comment on current issues, post images or video on the web easily, is here to stay. "we are entering one era in which the technological infrastructure is creating a different context for how we tell our stories and how we communicate with each other," said mr nachison. "and there's going to be bad that comes with the good." ebbers denies worldcom fraud  former worldcom chief bernie ebbers has denied claims that he knew accountants were doctoring the books at the firm.  speaking in court, mr ebbers rejected allegations he pressured ex-chief financial officer scott sullivan to falsify company financial statements. mr sullivan "made accounting decisions," he told the federal court, saying his finance chief had "a keen command of the numbers". mr ebbers has denied charges of fraud and conspiracy. during his second day of questioning in the new york trial mr ebbers played down his working relationship with mr sullivan and denied he frequently met him to discuss company business when questioned by the prosecution.  "in a lot of weeks, we would speak ... three or four times," mr ebbers said, adding that conversations about finances were rarely one-on-one and were usually discussed by a "group of people" instead.  mr ebbers relationship to mr sullivan is key to the case surrounding financial corruption that led to the collapse of the firm in 2002 following the discovery of an $11bn accounting fraud. the prosecution's star witness is mr sullivan, one of six worldcom executives indicted in the case, he has pleaded guilty to fraud and appeared as a prosecution witness as part of an agreement with prosecutors. during his time on the witness stand mr sullivan repeatedly told jurors he met frequently with mr ebbers, told him about changes made to worldcom's accounts to hide costs and had warned him such practises were improper. however during the case on tuesday mr ebbers denied the allegations. "i wasn't advised by scott sullivan of anything ever being wrong," he told the court. "he's never told me he made an entry that wasn't right. if he had, we wouldn't be here today." mr ebbers could face a jail sentence of up to 85 years if convicted of all the charges he is facing. shareholders lost about $180bn in worldcom's collapse, 20,000 workers lost their jobs and the company went bankrupt. the company emerged from bankruptcy last year and is now known as mci. fockers retain film chart crown  comedy meet the fockers has held on to the number one spot at the north american box office for a second week.  it took $42.8m (£23.7m) at the weekend, making its overall takings more than $163m (£90m) in 12 days, according to studio estimates. it took $19.1m (£9.9m) on christmas day alone, the highest takings on that day in box office history. the sequel to the ben stiller comedy meet the parents stars robert de niro, dustin hoffman and barbra streisand. the success of meet the fockers could help produce record box office revenue for 2004, said paul dergarabedian, president of the industry's tracker exhibitor relations. "we've had a much stronger than anticipated final week of the year that helped the industry end on a high note," said mr dergarabedian.  meet the fockers also broke the box office records for the most money taken on new year's eve, when it made $12.2m (£6.2m), and new year's day, when it took $18m (£9.4m). the previous new year's eve record was set in 2000 by cast away with $8.5m (£4.5m). the lord of the rings: the return of the king had held the new year's day title with $12.8m (£6.7m). however, christmas takings were down 26.5% on 2003's figures - which was blamed on christmas falling over a weekend this year. this weekend's top 12 films took an estimated $125.4m (£65.8m), a 4.3% increase on the same weekend last year. but there were no major releases last week to provide competition to meet the fockers or lemony snicket's a series of unfortunate events, which finished in second place with $14.7m (£7.7m). the aviator, starring leonardo dicaprio as howard hughes, ended up in third position after taking $11.2m (£5.9m). comedy fat albert - co-written by bill cosby - moved down the chart to fourth place after taking $10.7m (£5.6m). guantanamo man 'suing government'  a british terror suspect held in guantanamo bay for 33 months plans to sue the government, it is reported.  martin mubanga claimed in the observer that an mi6 officer played a key role in consigning him to the us camp in cuba, following his arrest in zambia. mr mubanga, 32, from wembley, london, said he was brutally interrogated and daubed with urine at the camp. the home secretary said he would not be launching an investigation and that the media reports were not "well informed". mr mubanga, who has dual british and zambian nationality, was one of four britons who were released from the us camp in january.  he said he was sent there after being interrogated by a british man who said he was from mi6, shortly after his arrest in zambia in march 2002. mr mubanga said he had been in afghanistan and pakistan to study islam. but he said he was unable to return to the uk because he had lost his british passport, and was travelling on his zambian passport instead. mr mubanga said the "mi6 agent" told him the passport had been found in a cave in afghanistan along with documents listing jewish groups in new york and suggested he had been on an al-qaeda reconnaissance mission. mr mubanga said the man, and an american female defence official, tried to recruit him as an agent, but he refused and within three weeks was told he would be sent to guantanamo bay.  his lawyer louise christian said: "'we are hoping to issue proceedings for the misfeasance of officials who colluded with the americans in effectively kidnapping him and taking him to guantanamo." and menzies campbell, the liberal democrats' foreign affairs spokesman, said it was vital to establish whether ministers approved mr mubanga's transfer to guantanamo. but a foreign office spokesman said he could not comment on the activities of british intelligence or security agencies. and home secretary charles clarke told bbc one's breakfast with frost: "i'm not organising a specific investigation into it." mr mubanga is the first of the four detainees freed last month to give a media interview. he told the observer his worst moment was when he was told he would be released last march, only to be confined and told he would be there for many more years.  he claimed he was stripped of his clothes and mattress and forced to remain in an empty metal box, naked except for boxer shorts. and he said an interrogator used a mop to daub him with his own urine while he was chained hand and foot. mr mubanga, who insists he does not feel bitter, said: "i've lost three years of my life, because i was a muslim. he added: "the authorities wanted to break me but they strengthened me. they've made me what i am - even if i'm not quite sure yet who that person is." the us government denied the claims, saying it condemned and prohibited torture. in a statement, it said: "the department of defense has no doubt that mr mubanga was properly detained as an enemy combatant under the laws of war. "he was detained to prevent him from fighting against the us and our allies in the war on terror." but fair trials abroad director stephen jakobi said there were similarities between mr mubanga's account and those of other guantanamo detainees. he said: "the pattern is the same. the real problem is the concentration camp conditions in guantanamo. "is [charles clarke] really pretending this is all made up?" mr mubanga and the three other freed british detainees were released without charge by uk police on their return from cuba. mido makes third apology  ahmed 'mido' hossam has made another apology to the egyptian people in an attempt to rejoin the national team.  the 21-year-old told a news conference in cairo on sunday that he is sorry for the problems that have led to his exclusion from the pharaohs since july last year. mido said: "there isn't much i have to say today, all there is to say is that i came specially from england to egypt to rejoin the national team and to apologise for all my mistakes." mido was axed by former coach marco tardelli after failing to answer a national call-up, claiming he had a groin injury. but he then played in a friendly for his club as roma within 24 hours of a world cup qualifying match at home to cameroon last september. mido added: "it's not my right to give orders and say when i want to play ... at the same time i will always make sure that i put the national's team's matches as my top priority. "i feel that the national players are playing with a new spirit as i saw them play against belgium (egypt won 4-0 on wednesday) and i simply want to add to their success. "i do confess that i was rude to the egyptian press at times but now i have gained more experience and know that i will never go anywhere without the press's support. "many of the international stars like david beckham and (zinedine) zidane had the press opposing them. "so i'm now used to the fact that the press can be against me at times and i don't have to overreact when this happens. meanwhile, egypt fa spokesman methat shalaby welcomed the apology and said no one had exerted pressure on mido to apologise. "mido's apology today does not negatively affect mido in anyway, on the contrary it makes him a bigger star and a role model for all football players," shalaby said. shalaby earlier said that after an apology mido would be available for the national side if coach hassan shehata chose him. mido joined tottenham in an 18-month loan deal near the end of the january transfer window, scoring twice on his debut against portsmouth. honour for uk games maker  leading british computer games maker peter molyneux has been made an obe in the new year honours list.  the head of surrey's lionhead studios was granted the honour for services to the computer games industry. mr molyneux has been behind many of the ground-breaking games of the last 15 years such as populous, theme park, dungeon keeper and black and white. he is widely credited with helping to create and popularise the so-called god-game genre.  speaking to the bbc news website mr molyneux said receiving the honour was something of a surprise. it's come completely out of the blue," he said, "i never would have guessed that i'd have that kind of honour." he said he was surprised as much because, not too long ago, many people thought computer gaming was a fad.  "it was thought to be like skateboarding," he said, "a craze that everyone thought would go away." now, he said, the gaming world rivals the movie industry for sales and cultural influence. "britain plays a big part in it," he said. "it's one of the founding nations that made the industry what it is." mr molyneux has been a pivotal figure in the computer games industry for almost 20 years. his career started at bullfrog studios which in 1987 produced populous one of the first god-games. the title gave players control over the lives a small population of computerised people. mr molyneux said that his involvement with the games industry started almost by accident as back in the early days game making was more a hobby than a career. "i thought everyone would treat populous as weird," he said, "but it became a huge international success." he left bullfrog in 1997 to set up lionhead studios which was behind the ambitous and widely acclaimed game black & white. one of the next titles to come from lionhead puts players in charge of a movie studio and tasks them with producing and directing a hit film. the veteran game maker says he has one problem still to solve. "being an absolute geek i've got no idea what i'm going to wear when i go and pick it up," he said. australia rates at four year high  australia is raising its benchmark interest rate to its highest level in four years despite signs of a slowdown in the country's economy.  the reserve bank of australia lifted interest rates 0.25% to 5.5%, their first upwards move in more than a year. however, shortly after the bank made its decision, new figures showed a fall in economic growth in the last quarter. the bank said it had acted to curb inflation but the move was criticised by some analysts.  the rate hike was the first since december 2003 and had been well-flagged in advance. however, opposition parties and some analysts said the move was ill-timed given data showing the australian economy grew just 0.1% between october and december and 1.5% on an annual basis.  the figures, representing a decline from the 0.2% growth in gdp seen between july and september, were below market expectations. consumer spending remains strong, however, and the bank is concerned about growing inflationary pressures. "over recent months it has become increasingly clear that remaining spare capacity in the labour and goods markets is becoming rather limited," said ian macfarlane, governor of the reserve bank.  at 2.6%, inflation remains within the bank's 2-3% target range. however, exports declined in the second half of 2004, fuelling a rise in the country's current account deficit - the difference in the value of imports compared to exports - to a record australian dollar 29.4bn. the australian government said the economy remained strong with unemployment at a near 30 year low. "the economy has been strong and it is properly moderating but it doesn't look to me like it's slowing in any unreasonable way," said treasurer peter costello. stock markets had factored in the likelihood of a rate rise but analysts still expressed concern about the strength of the economy. "that 1.5% annual growth rate is the lowest we have seen since the post-election slump we saw back in 2000-1," said michael blythe, chief economist at the commonwealth bank of australia. "this suggests the economy really did slow very sharply in the second half of 2004." sundance to honour foreign films  international films will be given the same prominence as us films at next year's sundance film festival, with movies dominated by the theme of war.  the independent film festival will feature two new international cinema competitions, during its 20-30 january season in utah. forty-two films will debut at sundance, including the liberace of baghdad by british director sean mcallister. the prestigious festival was founded by actor robert redford in 1981.  "we have always had an international component, but from next year they will enter a jury competition," festival director geoffrey gilmore said. "we wanted to give world cinema more emphasis and have now put it on par with the american dramatic and documentary competitions." twelve films competing in the new world cinema documentary category focus on countries and people under siege.  the liberace of baghdad features an iraqi pianist hiding in a hotel as he waits for a visa, while finnish film the three rooms of melancholia looks at the war in chechnya. shake hands with the devil: the journey of romeo dallaire tells of a un mission to rwanda during the 1994 genocide, while french-israeli production wall looks at israel's controversial security wall separating it from the palestinian territories. the 16 films competing in the new world cinema dramatic category include works from germany, south korea, angola, china, denmark and australia.  several hollywood stars feature in the festival's american independent drama category, including keanu reeves and benjamin bratt. vince vaughn stars in quirky movie thumbsucker while 21 grams actress naomi watts plays a budding hollywood actress in ellie parker. the top grand jury prize at this year's festival went to low budget sci-fi thriller primer, written and directed by shane carruth. morgan spurlock earned the directing award for super size me, which became an international box office hit. council tax rise 'reasonable'  welsh councils should set their taxes at "reasonable levels" after being given an average funding increase of 6%, says the assembly government.  finance minister sue essex said it was a "good deal" for local government. the £3.2bn settlement includes the "full" £7.4m from the uk treasury announced by chancellor gordon brown. but opposition parties said rebanding of council taxes would mean steep rises. in addition, £13.4m will come from the business support grant - a scheme which enables local authorities to keep part of business rates. she said where spending rises were kept to around 5% she was "confident that councils will be able to set council taxes at reasonable levels." the welsh local government association (wlga) had said on the eve of the announcement said that "significant" cuts to services may still be unavoidable. after the announcement wlga finance spokesman bob wellington, of torfaen, said it was vital that rises were minimsed. "a limited amount of money has come available but this is not the answer to our problems," said mr wellington. "it is vital that we start now to plan for future years and accept that resources will continue to reduce while pressures on services increase." on monday, a delegation of north wales councils visited ms essex to lobby for increased funds. ms essex said: "i have listened to the views of local government and council tax payers and recognise the funding pressures and the concerns they have about council tax rises. "i have met a large number of local authorities in recent weeks and i am aware of the pressures on them to provide local services and keep down the level of council tax, particularly for those people to are moving up a band due to the revaluation of domestic properties." she said council taxes could be kept at reasonable levels, "even for those people who have moved up a band".  the settlement includes a rise in the grant to help councils with the most deprived communities and a 16.4% rise in capital expenditure support. ms essex said: "this is a good deal for local government, which will allow the well-managed councils of wales to develop their services and charge reasonable levels of council tax. it is now a matter for council leaders to manage their budgets at a local level." plaid cymru's local government spokesman dai lloyd called the announcement "hugely disappointing". he said: "wales and its local authorities have been short changed yet again. this is not whinging as the labour assembly government so often claims - it is anger." "this will mean either a massive hike in council tax, massive cuts in services provided by councils, or both." mike german, leader of the liberal democrats in the assembly, claimed that one in three homes were still likely to face council tax rises due to rebanding. mr german said: "i know from my discussions with welsh liberal democrat council leaders that they are doing their utmost to keep council tax to a minimum. but the random redistribution effect of rebanding...will create a great deal of difficulty." conservative local government spokesman glyn davies said that for the minister to claim that the majority of council tax payers in wales should see very little change "is taking spin to the very verge of deception". he added: "around a third of welsh households have been re-valued upwards by at least one band and inevitably face increases into double figures." man city 0-2 man utd  manchester united reduced chelsea's premiership lead to nine points after a scrappy victory over manchester city.  wayne rooney met gary neville's cross to the near post with a low shot, which went in via a deflection off richard dunne, to put united ahead. seven minutes later, the unfortunate dunne hooked a volley over david james' head and into his own net. steve mcmanaman wasted city's best chance when he shot wide from three yards in the first half. in the opening 45 minutes united had looked unlikely to earn the win they needed to maintain any chance of catching chelsea in the title race. their approach play was more laboured than patient and they managed to fashion just one chance - a paul scholes header over the bar. and city seemed to be content to sit back and try and hit their rivals on the break as the game settled into a tepid pattern. only shaun wright-phillips appeared capable of interrupting the monotony, looking lively down the right and causing gabriel heinze problems.  wes brown also found wright-phillips to be a difficult opponent when the tricky winger embarrassed him near the touchline. wright-phillips' sublime skill and pace took him past brown and he delivered a pin-point centre to the feet of mcmanaman. but the former liverpool player demonstrated why he has never scored against united by side-footing the easy chance wide. john o'shea was forced off after an earlier clash with sylvain distin and cristiano ronaldo came on to replace him. he immediately caused ben thatcher some discomfort and looked set to inject some much-needed pace into the united attack. rooney was being well marshalled by dunne - but that was all about to change. after the break, united poured forward and there was a renewed urgency about their play. and when neville delivered a cross in a carbon copy of city's best first-half chance, rooney showed mcmanaman how to do it - even if he needed the help of dunne's leg. worse was to come for dunne, who had been having a fine match. on 75 minutes, he scored a horrible own goal when attempting to volley clear rooney's cross and united seemed home and dry. however, city did fight back and fowler missed another great chance from close range. and united keeper roy carroll saved well from kiki musampa. but united could have a had a third late on when substitute ryan giggs hit the post.  - manchester city boss kevin keegan: "we had a great chance to take the lead and the first goal was always going to be crucial. "we started off with a good tempo but then we allowed them to dictate the pace a bit too much. "but we still had four good chances, two after we'd gone 2-0 down, the one mcmanaman missed was very similar to the one wayne rooney scored from."   - manchester united boss sir alex ferguson: "it wasn't our best performance of the last three months but i think we're deserved winners. "at times, especially in the first half, we didn't play with enough speed. but with (cristiano) ronaldo and (ryan) giggs on, the speed improved. "derby games can be like that, they can be scrappy, dull, horrible and it was maybe like that." man city: james, mills (bradley wright-phillips 83), dunne, distin, thatcher, shaun wright-phillips, barton (macken 68), sibierski, mcmanaman, musampa, fowler. subs not used: weaver, onuoha, flood. booked: fowler, sibierski. man utd: carroll, gary neville, ferdinand, brown, heinze, o'shea (ronaldo 33), keane, fortune, fletcher (giggs 64), rooney, scholes (phil neville 84). subs not used: howard, bellion. booked: rooney, scholes, keane. goals: rooney 68, dunne 75 og. att: 47,111 ref: s bennett (kent). bush website blocked outside us  surfers outside the us have been unable to visit the official re-election site of president george w bush.  the blocking of browsers sited outside the us began in the early hours of monday morning. since then people outside the us trying to browse the site get a message saying they are not authorised to view it. the blocking does not appear to be due to an attack by vandals or malicious hackers, but as a result of a policy decision by the bush camp.  the international exclusion zone around georgewbush.com was spotted by net monitoring firm netcraft which keeps an eye on traffic patterns across many different sites. netcraft said that since the early hours of 25 october attempts to view the site through its monitoring stations in london, amsterdam and sydney failed.  by contrast netcraft's four monitoring stations in the us managed to view the site with no problems. the site can still be seen using anonymous proxy services that are based in the us. some web users in canada also report that they can browse the site. the pattern of traffic to the website suggests that the blocking was not due to an attack by vandals or politically motivated hackers. geographic blocking works because the numerical addresses that the net uses to organise itself are handed out on a regional basis. on 21 october, the george w bush website began using the services of a company called akamai to ensure that the pages, videos and other content on its site reaches visitors. mike prettejohn, president of netcraft, speculated that the blocking decision might have been taken to cut costs, and traffic, in the run-up to the election on 2 november. he said the site may see no reason to distribute content to people who will not be voting next week. managing traffic could also be a good way to ensure that the site stays working in the closing days of the election campaign. however, simply blocking non-us visitors also means that americans overseas are barred too. akamai declined to comment, saying it could not talk about customer websites. us company admits benin bribery  a us defence and telecommunications company has agreed to pay $28.5m after admitting bribery in the west african state of benin.  the titan corporation was accused of funnelling more than $2m into the 2001 re-election campaign of president mathieu kerekou. at the time, titan was trying to get a higher price for a telecommunications project in benin. there is no suggestion that mr kerekou was himself aware of any wrongdoing. titan, a california-based company, pleaded guilty to falsifying its accounts and violating us anti-bribery laws. it agreed to pay $13m in criminal penalties, as well as $15.5m to settle a civil lawsuit brought by the us financial watchdog, the securities and exchange commission (sec).  the sec had accused titan of illegally paying $2.1m to an unnamed agent in benin claiming ties with president kerekou. some of the money was used to pay for t-shirts with campaign slogans on them ahead of the 2001 election. shortly after the poll, which mr kerekou won, benin officials agreed to quadruple titan's management fee. prosecuting attorney carol lam said: "all us companies should take note that attempting to bribe foreign officials is criminal conduct and will be appropriately prosecuted." the company says it no longer tolerates such practices. under the us foreign corrupt practices act, it is a crime for american firms to bribe foreign officials. day-lewis set for berlin honour  actor daniel day-lewis is to be presented with an award for his career in film at the berlin film festival.  the 47-year-old, whose credits include his oscar-winning performance in my left foot, will be presented with the berlinale camera award on 15 february. the honour, awarded since 1986, honours figures in cinema that the festival feels "particularly indebted to". man to man, a historical epic starring kristin scott thomas, opens the german festival on 10 february. a candid documentary about the life and career of singer george michael, a different story will also be screened at the 10-day event. '  day-lewis has competed four times at the berlin film festival, with films in the name of the father (1994), the crucible (1997), the boxer (1998) and martin scorsese's gangs of new york (2003). the festival praises him for his "sensational start" with roles in my beautiful launderette and costume classic a room with a view, and a "great number of celebrated roles" in subsequent productions. japan's oldest film studio will also be honoured along with day-lewis. shochiku film studios, which was founded 110 years ago, will become the first cinematic institution to receive the berlinale camera award. famous japanese directors including akira hurosawa have had films produced at the studio. blunkett row should end - blair  prime minister tony blair said it was time to draw a line under the controversy surrounding david blunkett.  the tories and the lib dems have called for a second inquiry into the fast-tracking of a visa application for mr blunkett's ex-lover's nanny. sir alan budd found a "chain of events" linked mr blunkett to leoncia casalme's indefinite leave to remain application. at the end of his middle east trip, mr blair said he still admired mr blunkett and thought his integrity was intact.  on tuesday sir alan said the application for leave to remain in the uk made by kimberly quinn's nanny was processed in 52 days, 120 days faster than the average. but he could not find evidence to show whether mr blunkett's intervention was intended to give special help for his then lover's nanny - or if he was raising the case as an example of poor departmental performance. in his first comments since sir alan's announcement, mr blair told bbc news he had not yet read the report in detail. but told bbc news: "as far as i'm concerned, we have drawn a line under that."  asked if mr blunkett could return to frontline politics at some point, he replied: "i have made my admiration for david very clear and it remains. "he's been a tremendous colleague, he's done a great job for us, first as home secretary then as education secretary. the future is something we will have to approach in the future." the prime minister shrugged off claims from conservative leader michael howard that he led a "grubby government". he said mr blunkett's integrity remained intact: "he was the person first of all who asked for this inquiry to be set up. he accepted that what he originally thought had happened had not happened, he said. "but i think sir alan budd also accepted there wasn't some conspiracy or cover-up and i just think a line should be drawn under now and we should move on."  earlier, mr howard said: "there does need to be another inquiry, a judge-led inquiry. there were so many questions that weren't answered." there was "deceit at the heart of government" which was not limited to the visa affair, he argued. lib dem home affairs spokesman mark oaten also said there was "a strong case for a judge-led judicial review".  he said: "next time it happens it may not be about a nanny and their visa. it may be about something even more important than that." mr blunkett quit as home secretary last week after being told in advance of sir alan's findings. in a statement, the ex-home secretary said he accepted the inquiry's findings. he said he had told the truth throughout and had raised the nanny case as an example of unacceptable backlogs in the system. gerrard plays down european hopes  steven gerrard has admitted that liverpool have little chance of winning the champions league this season.  the 24-year-old reds skipper spoke out ahead of tuesday's first leg at home to bayer leverkusen in the last 16, which he will miss through suspension. "let's be realistic, there are some fantastic teams left in the champions league," he told bbc radio five live. "we are just going to try to stay in as long as possible but we realise that maybe it is not our year this year." gerrard has made no secret of his desire to be involved in europe's premier club competition.  last season he described qualification for the champions league as the "be all and end all" - and rumours persist that he will leave anfield if the reds fail to secure a place in the competition. he has consistently been linked with a move away from liverpool, with chelsea the favourites to snap up the england midfielder. and blues boss jose mourinho backed gerrard's view that rafael benitez's team could struggle to progress this season. "rafa has still time in front of him to build an even better team, maybe he's a little bit behind (right now)," he told bbc radio five live.  gerrard, who fired liverpool into the last 16 of this season's competition with a brilliant goal in december's win over olympiakos, insisted he was still fully focused on helping liverpool to glory this season. the reds are currently fifth in the premiership table, five points off the crucial fourth spot, which brings champions league qualification - and they face chelsea in sunday's carling cup final. "it's big couple of months for liverpool," he added. "we're fighting for the fourth spot for the champions league for next season but we are still involved in two cup competitions, which are very important. "we are confident we can upset chelsea in the carling cup final and get to the last eight of the champions league because, financially, it is big for the club and, personally for myself, it is very good." blogger grounded by her airline  a us airline attendant is fighting for her job after she was suspended over postings on her blog, or online diary.  queen of the sky, otherwise known as ellen simonetti, evolved into an anonymous semi-fictional account of life in the sky. but after she posted pictures of herself in uniform, delta airlines suspended her indefinitely without pay. ms simonetti was told her suspension was a result of "inappropriate" images. delta airlines declined to comment.  "i was really shocked, i had no warning," ms simonetti told bbc news online. "i never thought i would get in trouble because of the blog. i thought if they had a problem, someone would have said something before taking action." the issue has highlighted concerns amongst the growing blogging community about conflicts of interest, employment law and free speech on personal websites. ms simonetti was suspended on 25 september pending an investigation and has since lodged a complaint with the us equal employment opportunity commission (eeoc). a spokesperson for delta airlines told bbc news online: "all i can tell you is we do not discuss internal employee issues with the media." she added she could not say whether a similar situation over personal websites had occurred in the past.  ms simonetti started her personal blog in january to help her get over her mother's death. she had ensured she made no mention of which airline she worked for, and created fictional names for cities and companies. the airline's name was changed to anonymous airline and the city in which she was based was called quirksville. a large part of the blog contained fictional stories because queen of the sky developed over the months as a character in her own right, according to ms simonetti.  the images were taken from a digital camera she had inherited from her mother. "we often take pictures on flight or on layovers. i just though why not include them on my blog for fun. "i never meant it as something to harm my company and don't understand how they think it did harm them," ms simonetti said. she has also claimed that pictures of male delta airline employees in uniform are freely available on the web. of the 10 or so images on the site, only one showed ms simonetti's flight "wings". "they did not tell me which pictures they had a problem with. i am just assuming it was the one of me posing on seats where my skirt rode up," she said. the images were removed as soon as she learned she had been suspended. as far as ms simonetti knows, there is no company anti-blogging policy. there is guidance which suggests the company uniform cannot be used without approval from management, but use in personal pictures on websites is unclear.  jeffrey matsuura, director of the law and technology programme at the university of dayton, said personal websites can be hazardous for both employers and their employees. "there are many examples of employees who have presented some kind of material online that have gotten them in trouble with employers," he said. it was crucial that any policy about what was and what was not acceptable was expressed clearly, was reasonable, and enforced fairly in company policy. "you have to remember that as an employee, you don't have total free speech anymore," he said. mr matsuura added that some companies actively encouraged employees to blog. "one of the areas where it does become a problem is that they encourage this when it suits them, but they may not be particularly clear when they [employees] do cross the line." he speculated that delta might be concerned that the fictional content on the blog may be linked back to the airline after the images of ms simonetti in uniform were posted. "whether or not that is successful will depend on what exactly is prohibited, and whether you can reasonably say this content now crosses that line," he said. ms simonetti said her suspension has caused two of her friends to discontinue their blogs. one of them was asked to stop blogging by his company before any action was taken. "if they had asked me just take down the blog, i would have done it, but that was not been given to me as an option," she said. "this blogging thing is obviously a new problem for employers and they need to get a policy about it. if i had known it would cost me my job, i would not have done that." us insurer marsh cuts 2,500 jobs  up to 2,500 jobs are to go at us insurance broker marsh & mclennan in a shake up following bigger-than-expected losses.  the insurer said the cuts were part of a cost-cutting drive, aimed at saving millions of dollars. marsh posted a $676m (£352m) loss for the last three months of 2004, against a $375m (£195.3m) profit a year before. it blamed an $850m payout to settle a price-rigging lawsuit, brought by new york attorney general elliot spitzer. under the settlement announced in january, marsh took a pre-tax charge of $618m in the october-to-december quarter, on top of the $232m charge from the previous quarter. "clearly 2004 was the most difficult year in mmc's financial history," marsh chief executive michael cherkasky said.  an ongoing restructuring drive at the group also led to a $337m hit in the fourth quarter, the world's biggest insurer said.  analysts expect its latest round of cuts to focus on its brokerage unit, which employs 40,000 staff. the latest layoffs will take the total number of jobs to go at the firm to 5,500 and are expected to lead to annual savings of more than $375m. as part of its efforts to cut costs, the company said it was halving its dividend payment to 17 cents a shares from 34 cents, a move which should enable it to save $360m. looking ahead, mr cherkasky forecast profitable growth for the year ahead "with an operating margin in the upper-teens, and with the opportunity for further margin expansion". meanwhile, the company also announced it would spin-off its mmc capital private equity unit, which manages the $3bn trident funds operation, to a group of employees. marsh did not say when the move would take place, but said it had signed a letter of intent.  the insurer hit the headlines in october last year when it faced accusations of price rigging. new york attorney general elliot spitzer sued the company, accusing it of receiving illegal payments to steer clients to selected firms as well as rigging bids and fixing prices. in january, marsh agreed to pay $850m to settle the suit - a figure in line with the placement fees it collected in 2003 - and agreed to change its business practices. in february, a former senior executive pleaded guilty to criminal charges in a wide-ranging probe of fraud and bid-rigging in the insurance industry. in january, a former senior vice president also pleaded guilty to criminal charges related to the investigation. in an effort to reform its business practises, marsh said it has already introduced new leadership, new compliance procedures and new ways of dealing with customers. "as a result, we are ready to put these matters behind us and move ahead in 2005 to restore the trust our clients have placed in us and to rebuild shareholder value," mr cherkasky said. downloads enter us singles chart  digital music downloads are being included in the main us singles chart for the first time.  billboard's hot 100 chart now incorporates data from sales of music downloads, previously only assigned to a separate download chart. green day's boulevard of broken dreams is currently number two in billboard's pop chart, and tops its digital chart. download sales are due to be incorporated into the uk singles chart later this year.  digital sales in the us are already used to compile billboard's hot digital sales chart. they will now be tallied with sales of physical singles and airplay information to make up its new hot 100 chart. its second new chart - the pop 100 - also combines airplay, digital and physical sales but confines its airplay information to us radio stations which play chart music. in addition to green day, other artists in the current us digital sales top 10 include kelly clarkson, the game and the killers.  sales of legally downloaded songs shot up more than tenfold in 2004, with 200 million track purchased online in the us and europe in 12 months, the international federation of the phonographic industry (ifpi) reported last month. in the uk sales of song downloads overtook those for physical singles for the first time at the end of last year. the last week of december 2004 saw download sales of 312,000 compared with 282,000 physical singles, according to the british phonographic industry. the uk's first official music download chart was launched last september, compiling the most popular tracks downloaded from legal uk sites - including itunes, od2, mycokemusic.com and napster. westlife's flying without wings - a 1999 track reissued for the occasion - was the first number one of the uk download chart.  a spokesman for the british phonographic industry (bpi) said the first combined uk download and sales chart was due to be compiled "within the first half of this year". "work is going on across the music business right now to make sure the new chart works to plan," he said. the bpi spokesman described the uk music download chart, compiled by the official charts company, as having been "a great success" since its launch. "it has provided a focus for the industry and has really driven interest in downloads among music fans," he said. minimum rate for foster parents  foster carers are to be guaranteed a minimum allowance to help cover their costs, the government has announced.  payment levels vary from area to area, with some carers getting just £50 a week for clothes, food and other costs. minister for children, young people and families margaret hodge said new plans will ensure fosterers' allowances would be as fair as possible. however local authorities, which set and pay the allowances, are concerned about how the extra cash will be found. about 50,000 children live with foster families in the uk and carers have said they need more money to make ends meet.  ms hodge said: "foster carers must not be out of pocket when meeting the costs of caring for a looked after child - a crucial role in society. "we need to make sure that arrangements for paying foster carers are as fair and transparent as possible. "our proposal for a national minimum rate shows we are serious about creating a better deal for foster carers and about encouraging more people to come forward and consider fostering as a worthwhile and rewarding opportunity." the government is seeking to amend the children bill, which passes through the commons next week, to establish a national minimum payment.  fostering network executive director robert tapsfield criticised the existing system. "there is just no logic to a system which values children differently depending on where they live. "and with a shortage of over 8,000 foster carers in england, it's not a sustainable situation to expect carers to fund foster care from their own pockets." the charity recommends a weekly payment of £108.49 for looking after a baby. in a survey, it discovered that rates paid by neighbouring authorities could vary by as much as £100 per week.  the association of directors of social services (adss) said it agreed in principle with the government's plans. tony hunter, the organisation's president, said: "there are many devils and lots of details hidden within the government's proposals. "but adss fully supports proper remuneration for valued foster carers and looks forward to working with ministers, local government and the fostering organisations themselves in order to make sure a sensible and practicable policy emerges." duff ruled out of barcelona clash  chelsea's damien duff has been ruled out of wednesday's champions league clash with barcelona at the nou camp.  duff sustained a knee injury in the fa cup defeat at newcastle and manager jose mourinho said: "he cannot run. his injury is very painful, so he is out." but mourinho has revealed defender willian gallas and striker didier drogba will be in the starting line-up. the blues boss took the unusual step of naming his side a day before the match, with jole cole named in midfield. mourinho said: "we have one more session but i think drogba will play, and gallas will play. "drogba trained on monday with no problems and will do the same on tuesday. gallas feels he can play and wants to play. we are protecting him still but he will be okay to play." drogba, chelsea's £24m striker, has missed the last three weeks through injury.  cech, ferreira, carvalho, terry, gallas, tiago, makelele, lampard, cole, drogba, gudjohnsen. camera phones are 'must-haves'  four times more mobiles with cameras in them will be sold in europe by the end of 2004 than last year, says a report from analysts gartner.  globally, the number sold will reach 159 million, an increase of 104%. the report predicts that nearly 70% of all mobile phones sold will have a built-in camera by 2008. improving imaging technology in mobiles is making them an increasingly "must-have" buy. in europe, cameras on mobiles can take 1.3 megapixel images. but in japan and asia pacific, where camera phone technology is much more advanced, mobiles have already been released which can take 3.2 megapixel images. japan still dominates mobile phone technology, and the uptake there is huge. by 2008, according to gartner, 95% of all mobiles sold there will have cameras on them.  camera phones had some teething problems when they were first launched as people struggled with poor quality images and uses for them, as well as the complexity and expense of sending them via mms (multimedia messaging services). this has changed in the last 18 months. handset makers have concentrated on trying to make phones easier to use. realising that people like to use their camera phones in different ways, they have introduced more design features, like rotating screens and viewfinders, removable memory cards and easier controls to send picture messages.  mobile companies have introduced more ways for people to share photos with other people. these have included giving people easier ways to publish them on websites, or mobile blogs - moblogs. but the report suggests that until image quality increases more, people will not be interested in printing out pictures at kiosks. image sensor technology inside cameras phones is improving. the gartner report suggests that by mid-2005, it is likely that the image resolution of most camera phones will be more than two megapixels. consumer digital cameras images range from two to four megapixels in quality, and up to six megapixels on a high-end camera. but a lot of work is being done to make camera phones more like digital cameras. some handsets already feature limited zoom capability, and manufacturers are looking into technological improvements that will let people take more photos in poorly-lit conditions, like nightclubs. other developments include wide-angle modes, basic editing features, and better sensors and processors for recording film clips.  images from camera phones have even made it into the art world. an exhibition next month in aid of the charity mencap, will feature snaps taken from the camera phones of top artists.  the exhibition, fonetography, will feature images taken by photographers david bailey, rankin and nan goldin, and artists sir peter blake, tracey emin and jack vettriano. but some uses for them have worried many organisations. intel, samsung, the uk's foreign office and lawrence livermore national laboratories in the us, have decided to ban camera phones from their buildings for fear of sensitive information being snapped and leaked. many schools, fitness centres and local councils have also banned them over fears about privacy and misuse. italy's information commissioner has also voiced concern and has issued guidelines on where and how the phones can be used. but camera phone fears have not dampened the manufacturers' profits. according to recent figures, sony ericsson's profits tripled in the third-quarter because of new camera phones. over 60% of mobiles sold during the three months through to september featured integrated cameras, it said. us seeks new $280bn smoker ruling  the us justice department is to try to overturn a court ruling that threw out its claim for $280bn (£149bn) in damages from tobacco firms.  earlier this month, a three-judge appeal court panel rejected the claim - filed in 1999 by the administration of bill clinton - in a 2-1 decision. government lawyers said they would ask the full us court of appeals for the district of columbia to hear the case. the court room battle is seen as key in government attempts to fight smoking. "it's pretty clear that they've suffered a severe setback," said anthony sebok, a professor at brooklyn law school, adding that the appeal was what the government "would be expected to ask for".  prosecutors had argued that tobacco firms lied about the dangers of smoking, ignored research that highlighted problems, looked to increase addiction by manipulating nicotine levels and targeted the young with their adverts. among the firms accused were altria group, rj reynolds tobacco, lorillard tobacco, liggett group and brown and williamson. prosecutors went after the companies using legislation put in place to fight organised crime, and accused the firms of conspiring and running "racketeer influenced and corrupt organisations". the tobacco companies denied the charges, saying that they never illegally conspired to promote smoking and fool the public. they also said that they have met many of the government's demands laid out in a landmark $206bn settlement hammered out in 1998 with 46 states. a three-judge panel agreed with the companies, finding that the case could not be brought under federal anti-racketeering laws.  central to the government's case was a meeting in the plaza hotel, new york, on 15 december, 1953. prosecutors contend that executives from the major tobacco firms met and agreed to present a unified strategy denying the harmful effects of smoking. despite denying for decades that smoking could be linked to illness, the companies have modified their stances in recent years. altria's philip morris now accepts that nicotine is harmful, and the company's main lawyer william ohlemeyer told the bbc last year that earlier statements may have been wrong but they were not dishonest. government lawyers have until 21 march to file their appeal. glasgow hosts tsunami benefit gig  the top names in scottish music are taking part in a benefit concert in aid of the victims of the asian tsunami.  all 10,000 tickets for saturday's concert, featuring franz ferdinand, belle and sebastian and travis, at glasgow's secc sold out in 36 hours. mull historical society, deacon blue, idlewild, texas, mogwai and teenage fanclub are among the other acts performing at the concert. organisers hope to raise at least £250,000 from the show.  it follows a cardiff gig starring eric clapton, keane and jools holland, which raised more than £1.25m. and it is taking place on the same night as a tsunami benefit show in bristol, which will see massive attack and portishead share a stage for the first time. colin macintyre, of mull historical society, was playing another gig on the same day but said he was determined to make the glasgow benefit. he said: "i think we were all affected by seeing the reports coming from the far east. "we all know somebody who was there, but more than that it was that we had never seen a wave of destruction, a natural disaster, like this in my generation. "i'm lucky as an artist to be able to perform at something like this." royal couple watch nation's mood  prince charles and camilla parker bowles are awaiting the nation's reaction after announcing they are to be married on 8 april.  mrs parker bowles will take the title hrh duchess of cornwall after a civil ceremony to be held at windsor castle. a daily telegraph poll of 1,313 people suggests two-thirds of britons support the couple's decision to marry. but only 40% think mrs parker bowles should become princess consort as planned after charles becomes king. some 47% believe she should have no title, while 7% think she should become queen.  the poll also found that the majority of britons would prefer the monarchy to miss a generation, with the queen handing the throne to her grandson prince william, 22, on her death or abdication. on thursday night, prince charles, 56, and mrs parker bowles, 57, hosted a dinner at windsor castle, their first public appearance since announcing their engagement. mrs parker bowles said the prince went down on one knee to propose and added: "i'm just coming down to earth." she displayed her diamond engagement ring - a royal family heirloom - to reporters. charles said he and his wife-to-be were "absolutely delighted". their marriage will end years of speculation on a relationship which dates back to 1970.  the queen and duke of edinburgh said the news had made them "very happy". princes william and harry said they are "very happy" and wish the couple "all the luck in the future". the wedding will be a civil ceremony followed by a service of prayer and dedication in st george's chapel at which the archbishop of canterbury, dr rowan williams, will preside.  the marriage is likely to be a sensitive issue because mrs parker bowles is divorced and her former husband is still alive. if he became king, charles would be the supreme governor of the church of england and some anglicans remain opposed to the remarriage of divorcees. "his divorce from diana and the disappointment the country felt over how diana had been treated... opened up a sense of disillusionment with [prince charles]," said ros coward, who wrote the authorised biography of diana, princess of wales. the archbishop of canterbury said: "i am pleased that prince charles and mrs camilla parker bowles have decided to take this important step." tony blair said he was "delighted" for the couple and offered his congratulations, as did conservative leader michael howard and liberal democrat leader charles kennedy. australia's prime minister john howard also offered his congratulations, adding that their decision to marry was a "sensible and a good thing". mrs parker bowles has joined the prince at numerous engagements in recent years - mostly at evening events for the prince's trust. clarence house staff were at pains to point out that she attended these events in a private capacity. chelsea clinch cup in extra-time  (after extra-time - score at 90 mins 1-1)  john arne riise volleyed liverpool ahead after 45 seconds but steven gerrard scored a 79th-minute own goal. blues boss jose mourinho was sent off for taunting liverpool fans after the goal and he watched on television as his side went on to win the game. drogba and kezman scored from close range before antonio nunez's header made for a tense finale. it was an amazing climax which gave mourinho his first silverware as chelsea manager. yet it was controversial too, after mourinho's sending off, apparently for putting his finger to his lips to hush the liverpool fans. there was no hushing them after the extraordinary opening in which the reds took a stunning lead inside the first minute.  riise could not have connected any better with morientes' cross as he smashed a left-foot volley past petr cech. the goal, the quickest-ever in a league cup final, stunned a blues side whose previously rock-solid confidence had been shaken by consecutive losses to newcastle and barcelona in the previous week. the blues' attacking chances were limited, and jerzy dudek was equal to frank lampard's powerfully-struck drive and drogba's low shot. despite their frustration, chelsea began to dominate midfield without seriously threatening to break liverpool's well-organised defence.  joe cole had a shot blocked and a promising damien duff break was halted by a good tackle from djimi traore, but the reds reached half-time without any major scares. the blues began the second half with more urgency and pegged liverpool back. nevertheless, liverpool were living dangerously and they needed a fantastic double save from dudek on 54 minutes, first at full stretch from gudjohnsen's header, then to smother william gallas' follow-up. and despite chelsea's possession, it was liverpool who fashioned the next clear opportunity as luis garcia fed dietmar hamann whose shot forced a superb save from cech. and the blues' increasingly adventurous approach saw liverpool earn another chance on the break on 75 minutes as paulo ferreira denied gerrard with a last-ditch tackle. but gerrard was on the scoresheet minutes later - in the most unfortunate fashion - as he inadvertently deflected ferrerira's free-kick past his own keeper and in off the post to bring chelsea level. that prompted mourinho's reaction which saw him sent off, but chelsea still pressed and duff had a chance to win the game with seven minutes remaining. dudek saved bravely at the irishman's feet, while milan baros shot wildly at the other end to ensure extra time. drogba almost headed chelsea in front two minutes into extra-time but the striker saw the ball rebound off the post. but seconds after the half-time interval, drogba made no mistake, picking the ball up from glen johnson's long throw inside the six-yard box and sidefooting home. and kezman appeared to have made the game safe as he netted from close range after gudjohnsen's cross in the 110th minute. there was still drama as nunez beat cech to a high ball with six minutes remaining to head his side level, but despite liverpool's desperate attacks, chelsea clung on to win.  dudek, finnan, carragher, hyypia, traore (biscan 67), luis garcia, gerrard, hamann, riise, kewell (nunez 56), morientes (baros 74).  subs not used: pellegrino, carson.  hyypia, traore, hamann, carragher.  riise 1, nunez 113.  cech, paulo ferreira, ricardo carvalho, terry, gallas (kezman 74), jarosik (gudjohnsen 45), lampard, makelele, cole (johnson 81), drogba, duff.  subs not used: pidgeley, tiago.  lampard, kezman, drogba, duff.  gerrard 79 og, drogba 107, kezman 112.  78,000  s bennett (kent). games 'deserve a place in class'  computer games could enhance learning and have a legitimate place in the classroom, say researchers.  academics from the institute of education at london university found that "games literacy" was a key skill for youngsters. as well as being used in different areas of the curriculum, games are a legitimate area of study in their own right, researchers say. pupils should also be able to create their own games, they say.  "like all games, computer and video games entertain while promoting social development, and playing and talking about games is an important part of young people's lives," said project manager caroline pelletier.  "games literacy is a way of investigating how games are means of expression and representation, just like writing or drawing," she said. the researchers conducted two studies into the impact of games on education, the first looking at how they can be used in different curriculum subjects to enhance learning. researchers found that girls were often excluded from the male-dominated world of game playing. "without first-hand experience of how much fun a game can be, they have little motivation to play and remain disengaged from an engrossing and sociable activity," said research fellow diane carr.  the second project looked at how games can be integrated into media education and concluded that writing games should be a core part of studying them. sixth-form teacher barney oram already teaches computer games alongside the more traditional study of film, tv and popular music at the a-level course he runs at long road sixth form college in cambridge.  for parents, the idea that computer games could be brought into the classroom environment, could cause controversy. dr andrew burn, associate director of the institute of education's centre for the study of children, youth and media moved to reassure anxious parents. "games are a legitimate cultural form that deserve critical analysis in schools just as film, television and literature do," he said. "but we also want to argue that full understanding only comes when children have the tools to create their own games." the games industry welcomed the report, saying it showed how games had a positive impact on children. "at a time of hysterical and inaccurate reporting it is heartening to see the cultural, social and educational value of computer and video games being assessed intelligently," said roger bennett, director general of the entertainment and leisure software publishers association. "this report is further evidence, if it were needed, about the excellence and imagination that thrives in gaming. they have much to offer to the education of our children and they have much to offer as a career." the three-year research project, which is being presented at a seminar on tuesday in london, was partly funded by the department of trade and industry. budget aston takes on porsche  british car maker aston martin has gone head-to-head with porsche's 911 sports cars with the launch of its cheapest model yet.  with a price tag under £80,000, the v8 vantage is tens of thousands of pounds cheaper than existing aston models. the vantage is "the most important car in the history of our company", said aston's chief executive ulrich bez. aston - whose cars were famously used by james bond - will unveil the vantage at the geneva motor show on thursday. mr bez - himself a former executive at rival porsche - said the new car was the company's "most affordable car ever and makes the brand accessible". this in turn would make aston martin "globally visible, but still very, very exclusive", he added.  first shown as a concept car at the 2003 north american international auto show in detroit, the v8 vantage will be available in the uk in late summer. development costs for the vantage have been kept low by sharing a platform with aston's db9, which mr bez described as "the previous most important car for our company". there is currently an 18 months waiting list for the db9, mr bez said. the vantage will be built at the new aston factory in gaydon, near warwick, and should more than double aston's total output from about 2,000 presently. pop band busted to 'take a break'  chart-topping pop band busted have confirmed that they plan to "take a break", following rumours that they were on the verge of splitting.  a statement from the band's record company universal said frontman charlie simpson planned to spend some time working with his other band, fightstar. however they said that busted would "reconvene in due course". the band have had eight top three hits, including four number ones, since they first hit the charts in 2002. their singles include what i go to school for, year 3000, crashed the wedding, you said no, and who's david?  the band, which also includes members matt jay and james bourne, made the top ten with their self-titled debut album, as well as the follow-up, a present for everyone, in 2003. they won best pop act and best breakthrough act at the 2004 brit awards and were nominated for best british group. most recently they topped the charts with the theme from the live-action film version of thunderbirds, which was voted record of the year on the itv1 show. the band have capitalised on a craze for artists playing catchy pop music with rock overtones. the trio are seen as an alternative to more manufactured artists who are not considered credible musicians because they do not write their own songs or play their own instruments. however, recent rumours have suggested that simpson has been wanting to quit the band to focus on fightstar. he now plans to take fightstar on tour. muslim police stops 'more likely'  uk muslims should accept that people of islamic appearance are more likely to be stopped and searched by police, a home office minister has said.  hazel blears said innocent muslims would be targeted because of the search for islamic extremists. qualifications for religious leaders to enter the uk could also be made tougher, she told a commons inquiry. her comments have been described as "irresponsible" and "outrageous" by the islamic human rights commission (ihrc).  "the threat is most likely to come from those people associated with an extreme form of islam, or who are falsely hiding behind islam," the salford mp told the commons home affairs committee.  "it means that some of our counter-terrorism powers will be disproportionately experienced by the muslim community." it was a reality that should be recognised, she said. "if a threat is from a particular place then our action is going to be targeted at that area," she added. on ministers of religions, such as imams, she said faith groups would be asked what other qualifications and skills, such as civic knowledge and ability to engage the community, should be demanded. last year, ministers introduced a requirement that ministers should speak english to a certain level.  ihrc chairman massoud shadjareh accused ms blears of "playing an islamophobia card" in the run-up to a general election.  "she is demonising and alienating our community," he said. "it is a legitimisation for a backlash and for racists to have an onslaught on our community. "this sort of comment is just music to the ears of racists." later, the prime minister's official spokesman urged people to put ms blears' comments into context. the minister had been saying she understood there was a perception that stop and search was aimed at one community, but that was not what was happening, the spokesman said.  "what is happening is that those powers are aimed at those who are suspected of carrying out or planning certain activity who happen to come from one community. "it is not aimed at a particular community, it is not police policy to aim these powers at a particular community," he added. statistics showed that of the 17 people found guilty of terrorist acts in the uk since the 11 september attacks, only four of the 12 whose ethnic backgrounds were known were muslim, he added figures published last week showed that people from ethnic minorities were increasingly likely to be targeted by police stop and search tactics.  figures showed that, for 2003/2004, asians were 1.9 times more likely to be stopped and searched, compared with 1.7 times more likely in the previous year. separate figures on police searches in england and wales carried out under the terrorism act 2000 showed that ethnic minorities were more likely to be targeted. muslim groups have repeatedly claimed that their communities are being victimised under terror laws. in 2003/2004, 12.5% searches under the laws were on asian people, even though they make up 4.7% of the population. last july, the police were accused of islamophobia by muslim groups after stop and search figures showed the numbers of asians targeted had risen by 300% since the introduction of anti-terror laws. newcastle 2-1 bolton  kieron dyer smashed home the winner to end bolton's 10-game unbeaten run.  lee bowyer put newcastle ahead when he fed stephen carr on the right flank, then sprinted into the area to power home a header from the resultant cross. wanderers hit back through stelios giannakopoulos, who ended a fluid passing move with a well-struck volley. but dyer had the last word in a game of few chances, pouncing on a loose ball after alan shearer's shot was blocked and firing into the top corner. neither side lacked urgency in the early stages of the game, with plenty of tackles flying in, but opportunities in front of goal were harder to come by. bolton keeper jussi jaaskelainen had to make two saves in quick succession midway through the first-half - keeping out shearer's low shot and dyer's close-range header - but that was the only goalmouth action of note. and it was almost out of nothing that the magpies took the lead on 35 minutes. bowyer found space with a neat turn on the half-way line and striding forward picked out carr to his right. he then continued his run and with perfect timing made his way into the box where he met carr's cross with a downward header into the far corner. bolton had produced little going forward at this point but they responded well.  they were level within six minutes thanks to a smart finish from giannakopoulos. jay-jay okocha twisted and turned on the edge of the area and after a neat exchange of passes involving kevin davies and gary speed, the greek striker found the bottom corner with a first-time strike. the magpies were opened up again before half-time as davies set giannakopoulos in space and given had to block at his near post. but the home side survived, and they should have re-taken the lead with the first meaningful attack of the second half. fernando hierro cynically chopped down dyer on the edge of the area with the midfielder clean through. but the veteran defender escaped with a booking as there were other defenders nearby, and from the resultant free-kick laurent robert curled the ball just wide. bolton were creating little going forward and they seemed content to frustrate the magpies. their strategy seemed to be working until the 69th minute. alan shearer's snap-shot was charged down and dyer reacted first to smash the ball past the despairing jaaskelainen from six yards.  - bolton boss sam allardyce "i am bitterly disappointed with the result, but i am probably more disappointed with the second-half performance. "in the first half we had put them under a lot of pressure, and our goal matched theirs in quality. "i thought it would lift us and that they might be tired after playing a lot of games, but unfortunately we were not up for the battle in the second half. "we allowed them to heap too much pressure on us, and in the end we cracked."   - newcastle boss graeme souness "we deserved the win. we had a really good second half. "bolton are a difficult side to play. you have to match them physically first but we did that, and then we played some football. "we had a slow first 45 minutes when we looked a bit tired but we got going after that. the scoreline flattered them and we could have had one or two more goals." newcastle: given, carr, boumsong, bramble, babayaro, dyer, faye, bowyer, robert (jenas 77), ameobi, shearer. subs not used: butt, harper, milner, hughes. goals: bowyer 35, dyer 69. bolton: jaaskelainen, hunt (fadiga 14), n'gotty, ben haim, candela, giannakopoulos, okocha (vaz te 77), hierro (campo 64), speed, gardner, davies. subs not used: jaidi, poole. booked: ben haim, hierro. goals: giannakopoulos 41. att: 50,430 ref: s dunn (gloucestershire). nuclear body seeks new tech  the computer systems used to monitor the world's nuclear power installations are so outdated that they are hampering the work of inspectors.  a spokesman for the international atomic energy agency (iaea) said its current technology could allow key information to be overlooked as it was more than 20 years old. such systems are the only method of tracking nuclear material worldwide. the agency has appealed for more funds to update its hardware and software. "a major overhaul of the system is needed to allow inspectors immediate, secure online access to information," said project manager livio costantini.  iaea inspectors make around 3,000 visits a year to more than 900 nuclear facilities worldwide. they are there to verify official reports of activities in the plants, to carry out environmental checks, and also to look for any signs that nuclear material is being smuggled in or out of the facility.  the computer system inspectors currently use for comparing data from earlier visits, for instance, was built in the 1970s and largely paper based. an iaea spokesman said this was extremely inefficient and makes searching for anomalies like searching for a needle in a haystack. the organisation is aiming to start a system upgrade in november, aiming to provide inspectors in the field with secure online access to previous inspection data, design blueprints of nuclear facilities, even satellite images of the plant. where possible, it hopes to link the system with national records of the import and export of nuclear materials. further analysis of these could help spot potential smuggling activities or illicit technology transfers between countries, according to a spokesman.  computer specialist at the iaea, peter smith, would like to be able to incorporate state of the art visualisation techniques, more familiar to video games players, into the inspector's toolkit. "the commercials you now see have people are moving around in a virtual world," he said. "if we could have that on our laptops, we could be walking through the plant seeing, on the laptop, how the plant should look. "and if there's a door in the wall that is not on our laptop, then we have a problem." the iaea estimates the total cost of the four-year project to upgrade its technology will be $40m. so far it has only received $11m from the us and the uk. "failure to replace the hardware and software, and to integrate fully all the information system components will carry large risks," said an agency statement. golden rule 'intact' says ex-aide  chancellor gordon brown will meet his golden economic rule "with a margin to spare", according to his former chief economic adviser.  formerly one of mr brown's closest treasury aides, ed balls hinted at a budget giveaway on 16 march. he said he hoped more would be done to build on current tax credit rules. any rate rise ahead of an expected may election would not affect the labour party's chances of winning, he added. last july, mr balls won the right to step down from his treasury position and run for parliament, defending the labour stronghold of normanton in west yorkshire.  mr balls rejected the allegation that mr brown had been sidelined in the election campaign, saying he was playing a "different" role to the one he played in the last two elections. he rejected speculation that mr brown was considering becoming foreign secretary, saying his recent travels had been linked to efforts to boost international development. gordon brown's decision to announce the date of the budget while on a trip to china was a "sensible thing to do", since he was talking about skills and investment at the time, mr balls told the bbc. commenting on speculation of an interest rate rise, he said it was not within the remit of the bank of england's monetary policy committee (mpc) to factor a potential election into its rate decisions. expectations of a rate rise have gathered pace after figures showed that house prices are still rising. consumer borrowing rose at a near-record pace in january. "i don't believe it would be a big election issue in britain or a problem for labour," mr balls said. prime minister tony blair has yet to name the date of the election, but most pundits are betting on 5 may as the likely day. streets have 'album of the year'  the streets, aka british rapper and songwriter, mike skinner have topped a poll to find the year's best album.  a grand don't come for free beat keane's hope and fears in second place with franz ferdinand's self-titled album third, in the q magazine poll. skinner uses blunt beats under streetwise lyrics about such things as falling in love and drink and drugs. q magazine said: "a grand don't come for free captured the country's mood in a way no one could have predicted." a grand don't come for free is the second album from the streets. it followed original pirate material. q magazine also had praise for the runners-up in the poll. keane's hopes and fears, was described as a "revelatory debut" which showed "they had songwriting flair to spare". it also said franz ferdinand's album sounded "natural, unforced (and) under-produced". rock band u2's latest album how to dismantle an atomic bomb came fourth while razorlight's up all night was in fifth place. others notables on the list included dizzee rascal in at number 12 and the zutons at 20. estelle came in at 39, joss stone was 40th and jamelia took the 44th place. howard attacks cost of asylum  michael howard has launched an attack on the cost of britain's "chaotic" asylum system under tony blair.  the tory leader said english local authorities have spent more than £3bn - or £140 per household - on asylum since labour won power in 1997. mr howard is expected to tell activists in kent that voters' tolerance and desire to help others are being abused. other parties and refugee agencies have already attacked tory plans for annual limits on numbers.  mr howard said britain should take its fair share of the world's "genuine refugees".  "the anniversary of the liberation of auschwitz - where my grandmother was murdered along with over a million others - has reminded all of us that we have a moral responsibility to those fleeing persecution," he was due to say. "but if we are to fulfil responsibility, we have to get a grip of the system. "fair play matters. people want a government that upholds the rules - not one that turns a blind eye when they are bent and abused," he said. "and let's be clear. our asylum system is being abused - and with it britain's generosity." earlier this week, mr howard said his party's plans to cut immigration were not racist, arguing they would make the asylum system fairer for genuine refugees. if elected, his party would institute an annual limit on asylum and all claims would be processed overseas.  that prompted some charities to say the plans would put refugees' lives at risk if they were turned away once quotas were filled. "if we have a moral responsibility towards people fleeing persecution, then these policies will not provide a safe haven," said hannah ward of the refugee council. "if people turn up in the uk asking for help they will be turned away. michael howard's policy effectively means there is no safe haven in the uk. "when it comes to costs, then perhaps we should start with how decisions are made on asylum seekers. so many of them are shown to be wrong - one in five decisions that are appealed are successfully overturned, rising to half for some nationalities. "we need good quality decision-making on asylum applications because it is delays in the system which cost so much."  tony blair said labour would set out workable plans for tackling immigration abuse in the next few weeks and attacked the tory plans. "by cutting the number of front-line immigration staff at our borders, they will actually make the problem worse," said mr blair. liberal democrat chairman matthew taylor said there needed to be a quick, fair and firm asylum system. but he said it was "absolutely disgusting" to propose a system which could turn away genuine refugees. the conservatives say there is little risk of this happening as demand for asylum will be considered when quotas are set. on monday, mr howard said: "it's not racist, as some people to claim, to talk about controlling immigration far from it." middlesbrough 2-2 charlton  a late header by teenager danny graham earned middlesbrough a battling draw with charlton at the riverside.  matt holland had put the visitors ahead in the 14th minute after his shot took a deflection off franck queudrue. but middlesbrough peppered the charlton goal after the break and chris riggott stroked home the equaliser. shaun bartlett's strike put charlton back in front but that lead lasted just six minutes before graham rushed onto queudrue's pass to head home. the match burst to life from the whistle and charlton defender hermann hreidarsson had sight of an open goal after just six minutes. hreidarsson received danny murphy's free-kick from the right but he crashed his free header wide of the far post. the iceland international looked such a danger the boro bench could be heard issuing frantic instructions to mark him.  charlton's early pressure paid off when bartlett received a long ball from talal el karkouri in the box and laid it off to holland who buried his right-footed strike. szilard nemeth, recalled in place of joseph-desire job, was twice denied his chance to get middlesbrough back on level terms by dean kiely. the striker played a great one-two with jimmy floyd hasselbaink only to see kiely get down well to smother his shot before directing a header straight into the keeper's arms. boro had plenty of time on the ball but the addicks comfortably mopped up the pressure - with kiely tipping a hasselbaink header over the bar - to take their lead into half-time.  it was all one-way traffic after the break at the riverside as middlesbrough poured forward and kiely even saved hreidarsson's blushes when he palmed the ball away to prevent a charlton own goal. but the addicks keeper could do nothing about riggott's equaliser in the 74th minute. the boro defender looked suspiciously offside as he got on the end of gareth southgate's misdirected effort, but despite the charlton protests his goal stood. the addicks did not let their heads drop and bartlett left the boro defence standing, picking up hreidarsson's cross to easily sink his right-footed strike. but substitute graham was on hand to grab a share of the points for the home side. the 19-year-old striker nodding home the equaliser - and his first premiership goal - with five minutes left on the clock.  "i felt we did enough to win the game even though the first half was lacklustre. "we dominated after the break, the players showed a fantastic response and we should have gone on to win. "but for (charlton goalkeeper) dean kiely, who made three tremendous saves, we could have scored five or six."  "to take the lead and then to get penned back, it feels a little bit like a defeat," admitted kiely. "we were winning but middlesbrough kept knocking on the door. but we stood up and credit to us we didn't capitulate. "we'll kick on now. our short-term ambition is to progress from the seventh place finish from last year."  nash, reiziger (graham 82), riggott, southgate, queudrue, parlour (job 86), doriva, nemeth (parnaby 87), zenden, downing, hasselbaink.  subs not used: cooper, knight.  riggott 74, graham 86.  kiely, hreidarsson, perry, el karkouri, young, konchesky, murphy (euell 78), holland, kishishev, thomas (johansson 72), bartlett.  subs not used: fish, jeffers, andersen.  konchesky, hreidarsson, perry.  holland 14, bartlett 80.  29,603  m riley (w yorkshire). web logs aid disaster recovery  some of the most vivid descriptions of the devastation in southern asia are on the internet - in the form of web logs or blogs.  bloggers have been offering snapshots of information from around the region and are also providing some useful information for those who want to help. indian writer rohit gupta edits a group blog called dogs without borders. when he created it, the site was supposed to be a forum to discuss relations between india and pakistan. but in the wake of sunday's tsunami, mr gupta and his fellow bloggers switched gears.  they wanted to blog the tsunami and its aftermath. one sri lankan blogger in the group goes by the online name morquendi. with internet service disrupted by the tsunami, morquendi started sending sms text messages via cell phone from the affected areas of sri lanka. "we started publishing these smses," says mr gupta.  "morquendi was describing scenes like 1,600 bodies washed up on a shore, and people burying, and burying and burying them. people digging holes with their hands. and this was coming through an sms message. "we didn't have visual accounts on radio or on tv, or in the print media." soon, thousands of web users around the world were logging on to read morquendi's first hand accounts. in one message, morquendi wrote about a sri lankan woman who was running home with a friend when the wave hit. "she was being swept away," morquendi's message read. "she grabbed a tree with one hand and her friend with the other. she says she watched the water pull her friend away." mr gupta says the power of morquendi's text message blogs was palpable. "he was running around, looking for friends, burying bodies, carrying bodies," mr gupta says of morquendi. "i can't even begin to imagine the psychological state he was in when he was sending us reports, and doing the relief work at the same time. "he was caught between being a journalist and being a human being."  others blogs are helping to spread information about relief efforts. dina mehta is an indian blogger who's helping with the newly created south east asia earthquake and tsunami blog. she says the blog is not meant to be filled with first person accounts. "what we're doing is we're building a resource," she says. "anyone who says, ok, i want to come and do some work in india, volunteer in india, or in sri lanka or malaysia, this is the sort of one-stop-shop that they can come to for all sorts of resources - emergency help lines, relief agencies, aid agencies, contacts for them etc."  ms mehta also says she wishes that governments in the region would realise the power of blogs. "imagine if they had this resource available to them, if there was a disaster, how quickly you could funnel aid in, and get people to help," she says. bloggers in the united states are also getting involved. ramdhan yadav kotamaraja is originally from india, but now lives in dallas. mr kotamaraja wanted to help those affected by the tsunami by pooling money with concerned friends. so, he set up an online payment system on his website. then, says mr kotamaraja, the blogging world found out. "all my blogger friends started linking up my site, and i saw a lot of people other than my friends. i'd say 70% of the donations came from people i don't know. "it's simply unbelievable to me, that people that i don't know will come and start donating." news spreads quickly on weblogs, a phenomenon that helps bloggers expand their audience and scope. in sri lanka, blogger morquendi is recruiting others to help. one recruit calls himself heretic. in one of his latest posts, heretic asks: "have you ever seen fishing trawlers on the road? ever seen a bus inside a house? "well," heretic writes, "that was just the least affected areas - so you can just imagine - or can you?" he concludes: "keep it blogged."  clark boyd is technology correspondent for the world, a bbc world service and wgbh-boston co-production. liberian economy starts to grow  the liberian economy started to grow in 2004, but "sustained and deep reform efforts" are needed to ensure long term growth, the international monetary fund (imf) has said.  an imf mission made the comments in a report published following 10 days of talks with the transition government. the imf said that, according to data provided by the liberians, the country's gdp rose by 2% in 2004, after a 31% decline in 2003. liberia is recovering from a 14-year civil war that came to an end in 2003. the power-sharing national transition government of liberia will remain in place until elections on 11 october, the first presidential and parliamentary ballots since the conflict ended.  the imf said liberia's economy started to grow last year thanks to a "continued strong recovery in rubber production, domestic manufacturing and local services including post-conflict reconstruction". the imf however remains cautious about what it sees as a lack of transparency in government actions. in particular, it pointed to mystery surrounding the sale of iron ore stockpiles and the alleged disappearance of some import and export permits. these matters are now being investigated by the liberian authorities and the imf has called for their findings to be made public. the imf also said it was crucial that the central bank of liberia be strengthened, the national budget be effectively managed and a sound economic basis built to allow the country's large external debt to be addressed. "the imf team stands ready to assist the (liberian) authorities in strengthening the areas mentioned," said the report. "the team agreed with the (liberian) authorities that the period until elections and the inauguration of a new government will pose exceptional challenges to fiscal management, and expresses its willingness to provide...continued support." manics in charge of bbc 6 music  the manic street preachers are to take over the helm of bbc digital radio station 6 music for a week in december.  the welsh band, whose hits include design for life and if you tolerate this, have already chosen which records to play between 6 and 12 december. their albums of the day include who's next by the who and u2's joshua tree. the group will also perform their own live session. they follow in the footsteps of radiohead, who took over the station for a week last year.  bass player nicky wire will join phil jupitus on his morning show on monday 6 december, while vocalist and guitarist james dean bradfield will appear on andrew collins' afternoon show on thursday 9. the group have also chosen documentaries to air, such as the leonard cohen story and guitar greats - jimmy page. the live concert session tracks they have picked include the specials' rat race recorded at hammersmith odeon in london and public enemy's fight the power and rebel without a pause. the band will also answer questions e-mailed in by 6 music listeners. brown outlines third term vision  gordon brown has outlined what he thinks should be the key themes of new labour's next general election bid.  he said ensuring every child in britain had the best start in life could be a legacy to match the nhs's creation. the chancellor has previously planned the party's election strategy but this time the role will be filled by alan milburn - a key ally of tony blair. the premier insisted mr brown will have a key role in labour's campaign, and praised his handling of the economy.  writing in the guardian newspaper, mr brown outlined his view of the direction new labour should be taking. "as our manifesto and our programme for the coming decade should make clear, labour's ambition is not simply tackling idleness but delivering full employment; not just attacking ignorance, disease and squalor but promoting lifelong education, good health and sustainable communities." bbc political editor andrew marr said that mr brown's article was "a warning shot" to mr blair not to try and cut him out of the manifesto writing process. "it was, as always, coded and careful... but entirely deliberate," was mr marr's assessment. the prime minister was asked about mr brown's article and about his election role when he appeared on bbc radio 4's today programme. mr blair said a decision had yet to be taken over how the election would be run but the chancellor's role would be "central". mr blair argued that under new labour the country had changed for the better and that was "in part" because of mr brown's management of the economy. and he pledged childcare would be a "centrepiece" of labour's manifesto. he also predicted the next general election will be a "tough, tough fight" for new labour. but the prime minister insisted he did not know what date the poll would take place despite speculation about 5 may. mr blair said he was taking "nothing for granted" ahead of the vote - warning that the tory strategy was to win power via the back door by hinting they were aiming to cut labour's majority instead of hoping for an outright win. dundee utd 4-1 aberdeen  dundee united eased into the semi-final of the scottish cup with an emphatic win over aberdeen.  alan archibald prodded united ahead in 19 minutes and james grady made it two from close range 10 minutes later. richie byrne's header gave aberdeen a way back into the game, but stevie crawford restored united's lead from 18 yards before half time. the scoring was completed by grady just after the break - a superb shot on the turn making it 4-1. tony bullock in the united goal was called into action for the first time with just over a quarter-of-an-hour on the clock. noel whelan laid the ball off to jamie winter on the edge of the box, but his first-time effort was gathered by the united keeper. moments later though, the home side took the lead. barry robson whipped in a free kick from the right, which stevie crawford caught on the volley. russell anderson failed to deal with it and whelan's clearance off the line landed kindly at the feet of archibald, who poked the ball into the net. united doubled their lead after 29 minutes when grady tapped the ball into an empty net after robson had headed mark wilson's cross off the angle of post and bar. but only three minutes later aberdeen clawed their way back into the match. a free kick from the left by winter was met powerfully by the head of byrne at the back post, leaving bullock helpless.  united restored their two-goal lead four minutes before the end of a highly entertaining first half. jason scotland played a perfectly-weighted pass into the path of the onrushing crawford and he coolly beat ryan esson from 18 yards. united ended the game as a contest just two minutes after the interval. grady received a pass from crawford with his back to goal on the edge of the box and after taking one touch, he spun to volley the ball past the despairing dive of esson. the home side were in complete control and it required a good stop from esson to keep out robson's drive after 62 minutes. the keeper denied the same player again 10 minutes later, beating away his fierce shot from the left of the penalty area. robson saw another long-range effort tipped round the post before a cute lob was headed off the line.  bullock, duff, wilson, ritchie, archibald, scotland (samuel 63), brebner, kerr (cameron 87), robson, crawford, grady.  colgan, dodds, kenneth.  brebner.  archibald 19, grady 29, crawford 41, grady 47.  esson, hart, anderson, diamond, byrne (morrison 75), mcnaughton, heikkinen (foster 27), winter, clark (stewart 51), mackie, whelan.  blanchard, mcguire.  : anderson, diamond.  byrne 33.  8,661  k clark pandas benefit from wireless net  the world's dwindling panda population is getting a helping hand from a wireless internet network.  the wolong nature reserve in the sichuan province of southwest china is home to 20% of the remaining 1,500 giant pandas in the world. a broadband and wireless network installed on the reserve has allowed staff to chronicle the pandas' daily activities. the data and images can be shared with colleagues around the world. the reserve conducts vital research on both panda breeding and bamboo ecology.  using the network, vets have been able to observe how infant pandas feed and suggest changes to improve the tiny cubs' chances of survival.  "digital technology has transformed the way we communicate and share information inside wolong and with the rest of the world," said zhang hemin, director of the wolong nature reserve. "our researchers now have state-of-the-art digital technology to help foster the panda population and manage our precious surroundings." the network has been developed by intel, working closely with the staff at wolong. it includes a 802.11b wireless network and a video monitoring system using five cameras to observe pandas around the clock.  before the new infrastructure arrived at the panda park, staff walked or drove to deliver floppy disks across the reserve. infant panda health was recorded on paper notebooks and research teams in the field had little access to the data. to foster cultural links across the globe, a children's learning lab has been incorporated in the network, in collaboration with globio (federation for global biodiversity education for children), an international non-profit organisation. it will enable children at local primary schools to hook up with their peers in portland, oregon in the us. "digital technology brings this story to life by enabling a global dialogue to help bridge cultures around the world," said globio founder gerry ellis. slowdown hits us factory growth  us industrial production increased for the 21st month in a row in february, but at a slower pace than in january, official figures show.  the institute for supply management (ism) index fell to 55.3 in february, from an adjusted 56.4 in january. although the index was lower than in january, the fact that it held above 50 shows continued growth in the sector. "february was another good month in the manufacturing sector," said ism survey chairman norbert ore.  "while the overall rate of growth is slowing, the overall picture is improving as price increases and shortages are becoming less of a problem. exports and imports remain strong," he said. analysts had expected february's figure to be stronger than january's and come in at 57. of the 20 manufacturing sectors surveyed by ism, 13 reported growth. they included the textiles, apparel, tobacco, chemicals and transportation sectors. the ism's index of national manufacturing activity is compiled from the responses of purchasing executives at more than 400 industrial companies. media seek jackson 'juror' notes  reporters covering singer michael jackson's trial in california have asked to see questionnaires completed by potential jurors.  lawyers for news organisations said it was "really vital" for the responses of 250 potential jurors to be made public "to serve as a check on the process". santa barbara county superior court is due to consider the request on monday. mr jackson denies child molestation. it is estimated his trial will cost santa barbara county up to $4m (£2.13m).  meanwhile michael jackson's mother has said she is "100% certain" her son did not commit the child abuse charges he faces. the court is currently selecting 12 jurors and eight stand-by jurors for the trial, a process delayed until at least thursday after a member of the star's legal team was hit by family illness. defence lawyers argued against the bid by associated press and other news organisations to have potential jurors' responses made public.  "the release of the completed jury questionnaires does not serve any purpose other than to add to the sensationalist coverage of this case," a motion by mr jackson's lawyers stated. the estimated total costs of the trial, expected to last five months, range from $2.5m (£1.33m) to $4m (£2.13m) of local taxpayers' money. those estimates do not include costs to the city of santa maria, the superior court or for the investigation and prosecution of the case. the cost of security and other needs around the courthouse has been estimated at $40,000 (£21,000) per day, said jason stilwell, a special projects manager at the county administrator's office.  mr jackson, 46, denies plying a boy with alcohol and molesting him. his mother katherine jackson told us tv network fox news on sunday that her pop star son told her he was innocent. "i believe that for one reason - i know his character," she said. "he loves children. you don't molest anything that you love." describing mr jackson as "a good person", the mother-of-nine said she feared he would not be given a fair trial. "i can't sleep thinking about what these wicked people might try to do to him," she said. 'super union' merger plan touted  two of britain's big trade unions could merge to form a "super union" of two million members.  the move by amicus and the transport and general workers union (tgwu) would be a seen as a bid to carry more weight with ministers and employers. amicus has 1.2 million members and the tgwu has 800,000. any merger would have to be approved by the unions' executives and their membership. it is understood meetings will be held on wednesday about the proposal. along with the gmb and unison, the tgwu and amicus worked closely together in the last year to hammer out a 56-point deal with labour's leadership over equality at work, holidays and pensions - the warwick agreement. both unions are remaining tight-lipped about the merger rumours, but one insider pointed out to the bbc news website that "nobody is denying suggestions a merger could be on the agenda" when the two unions' executives hold their meetings on wednesday. amicus's executive was due to meet in any case although the tgwu is holding specially scheduled talks. clyde 0-5 celtic  celtic brushed aside clyde to secure their place in the scottish cup semi-final, but only after a nervy and testing first half.  the home side's craig bryson had a goal chopped off before stan varga headed celtic into the lead. alan thompson scored from the penalty spot at the start of the second half after shaun maloney had been fouled. stilian petrov slid in a third, varga tapped in his second and craig bellamy completed the rout with a fine drive. bryn halliwell was the busier keeper early on, saving from bellamy, chris sutton and juninho. clyde had the ball in the net after half-an-hour through a tremendous strike from bryson, but the referee had already blown for a foul by petrov. from the resulting free kick, darren sheridan curled the ball round the celtic wall only for the post to deny him. back at the other end, halliwell did well to come off his line and block bellamy's effort to lift the ball over him. the keeper misjudged a corner that stephane henchoz headed wide, but a similar scenario five minutes before the break led to the opening goal. the ball was delivered from the left and halliwell was left floundering as varga glanced the ball into the net.  maloney replaced the injured sutton at half time and he marked his first competitive appearance after a year out injured by helping his side take a two-goal lead just after the break. the young striker fired a free kick straight into the clyde wall but as he collected the rebound, he was tripped by bryson and thompson converted the penalty. sheridan and bellamy were involved in something of a flare-up that led to both being booked after the intervention of the assistant referee. juninho brought out another good save from halliwell and then petrov saw a tremendous effort come off the top of the bar. but petrov and juninho combined brilliantly to allow the bulgarian to make it 3-0 on the hour mark - a quick one-two giving him the time and space to steer the ball past halliwell from 12 yards. varga got his second goal of the game as celtic drove home their advantage - thompson whipped in a corner from the right and the unmarked defender simply tapped the ball over the line from a couple of yards out. celtic were utterly dominant by this stage and bellamy opened his scoring account for the club after a fine move involving aiden mcgeady, jackie mcnamara and maloney culminated in the welshman hammering the ball into the net. halliwell kept the deficit at five by pushing a mcgeady shot wide as the game petered out.  halliwell, mensing, bollan, balmer, potter, sheridan (burns 61), arbuckle (gilhaney 61), gibson, bryson (jones 78), malone, harty.  morrison, wilson.  mensing, sheridan.  douglas, henchoz, mcnamara, balde, varga, juninho paulista, thompson, lennon (lambert 70), sutton (maloney 45), petrov (mcgeady 70), bellamy.  marshall, laursen.  thompson, bellamy.  : varga 40, thompson 48 pen, petrov 60, varga 68, bellamy 72.  8,200  c thomson search wars hit desktop pcs  another front in the on-going battle between microsoft and google is about to be opened.  by the end of 2004 microsoft aims to launch search software to find any kind of file on a pc hard drive. the move is in answer to google's release of its own search tool that catalogues data on desktop pcs. the desktop search market is becoming increasingly crowded as google, aol, yahoo and many smaller firms tout programs that help people find files.  microsoft made the announcement about its forthcoming search software during a call to financial analysts to talk about its first quarter results. john connors, microsoft's chief financial officer said a test version of its desktop search software should be available for download by the end of the year.  "we're going to have a heck of a great race in search between google, microsoft and yahoo," he said. "it's going to be really fun to follow." microsoft is coming late to the desktop search arena and its software will have to compare favourably with programs from a large number of rivals, many of which have fiercely dedicated populations of users. the program could be based on the software microsoft owns as a result of its purchase of lookout software in early october. on 14 october google released desktop search software that catalogues all the files on a pc and lets users use one tool to find e-mail messages, spreadsheets, text files and presentations. the software will also find webpages and messages sent via aol instant messenger.  many other firms have released desktop search systems recently too. companies such as blinkx, copernic, enfish x1 technologies and x-friend all do the same job of cataloguing the huge amounts of information that people increasingly store on their desktop or home computer.  apple has also debuted a similar search system for its computers called spotlight that is due to debut with the release of the tiger operating system. due to follow are net giants aol and yahoo. the latter recently bought stata labs to get its hands on search software that people can use. microsoft is also reputedly working on a novel search system for the next version of windows (codenamed longhorn). however this is not likely to appear until 2006. "the recent activity in the search industry shows that there is a need to move beyond simple keyword-based web search," said kathy rittweger, co-founder of blinkx. "finding information of our own computers is becoming as difficult as it is to find the relevant webpage amongst the billions that exist."  desktop search has become important for several reasons. according to research by message analysts the radicati group up to 45% of the information critical to keeping many businesses running sits in e-mail messages and attachments. jf sullivan, spokesman for e-mail software firm sendmail said many organisations were starting to realise how important messaging was to their organisation and the way the work. "the key thing is being able to manage all this information," he said. also search is increasingly key to the way that people get around the internet. many people use a search engine as the first page they go to when getting on the net. many others use desktop toolbars that let them search for information no matter what other program they are using. having a tool on a desktop can be a lucrative way to control where people go online. for companies such as google which relies on revenue from adverts this knowledge about what people are looking for is worth huge amounts of money. but this invasiveness has already led some to ask about the privacy implications of such tools. lufthansa flies back to profit  german airline lufthansa has returned to profit in 2004 after posting huge losses in 2003.  in a preliminary report, the airline announced net profits of 400m euros ($527.61m; £274.73m), compared with a loss of 984m euros in 2003. operating profits were at 380m euros, ten times more than in 2003. lufthansa was hit in 2003 by tough competition and a dip in demand following the iraq war and the killer sars virus. it was also hit by troubles at its us catering business. last year, lufthansa showed signs of recovery even as some european and us airlines were teetering on the brink of bankruptcy. the board of lufthansa has recommended paying a 2004 dividend of 0.30 euros per share. in 2003, shareholders did not get a dividend. the company said that it will give all the details of its 2004 results on 23 march. band aid retains number one spot  the charity single by band aid 20 has held on the chart top spot for a second week, strengthening its chances of becoming the christmas number one.  do they know it's christmas, featuring artists including chris martin and jamelia, held off kylie minogue to remain the week's biggest single. next week's chart will reveal who will have the festive chart-topper minogue's latest release i believe in you went in at number two, pushing down ice cube's you can do it to three. destiny's child also slipped one place to four with lose my breath, followed by girls aloud at five with the children in need record i'll stand by you.  the only other new entry in the top 10 came from robbie williams track misunderstood, a new track written for his greatest hits album. there were no new releases in the entire top 40 album charts as record companies put out all the big releases early hoping to cash in on the lucrative christmas market. u2's how to dismantle a bomb remains at number one for a third week in a row, followed by williams' greatest hits. opera band il divo have moved up one place with their eponymous album to number three. maroon 5's album songs about jane has moved up to number seven despite being released 47 weeks ago. and the abba gold greatest hits album has crept back into the top 40 more than nine years after it was first released. uk firms 'embracing e-commerce'  uk firms are embracing internet trading opportunities as never before, e-commerce minister mike o'brien says.  a government-commissioned study ranked the uk third in its world index of use of information and communication technology (ict). the report suggests 69% of uk firms are now using broadband and that 30% of micro businesses are trading online. mr o'brien said uk businesses were sprinting forward in ict use, but that there were more challenges ahead. the report, carried out independently by consultants booz allen hamilton and hi europe, placed the uk third behind sweden and ireland for business use of ict.  it showed british business brought greater maturity to their ict use, by using broadband in increased numbers, bringing ict into their business plans and using new technologies such as voice activated programmes and desktop video conferences. mr o'brien said: "the increase in the proportion of business connected by broadband shows that uk companies are embracing the opportunities that ict can bring. "it is particularly encouraging to see that small businesses are beginning to narrow the digital divide that appeared to have opened up in recent years." the government would play its part in "cultivating an environment where information and communication technologies can flourish", mr o'brien said. the "clear message" the report sends is that effective use of ict can bring real improvements in business performance for all business.  "however, we are not at the finishing line yet and many challenges remain if the uk is to reach its aim of becoming a world-leading e-economy," he added. the international benchmarking study was based on 8,000 telephone interviews with businesses, of which more than 2,700 were uk businesses. it is the eighth in a series of examining the adoption and deployment of ict in the world's most industrialised nations. hearts 2-1 livingston  hearts wrapped up their scottish cup quarter-final tie against livingston with two goals in the first 10 minutes.  lee miller scored inside the opening 60 seconds, heading over colin meldrum and into the net from a jamie mcallister free kick. mcallister himself scored the second when he met saul mikoliunas' cross at the back post to put the game beyond the visitors. craig easton headed in a controversial goal after an hour but hearts held on. the opening goal came after gus bahoken had clumsily fouled miller 35 yards from goal. mcallister floated the free kick into the livi box and miller outjumped the static visiting defence to loop his header from 10 yards over meldrum. with just 10 minutes on the clock, the home side doubled their lead. mikoliunas sprinted down the right, crossed to the back post where mcallister raced in to head past meldrum. moments later miller came close to grabbing his second with a first-time drive from 16 yards, which skimmed the bar.  then mcallister picked up a pass from stephen simmons and drove an angled shot from 20 yards narrowly past meldrum's far post. the impressive mikoliunas twice went close before half time - a low drive was comfortably gathered by meldrum and then he curled a left-footed shot past the keeper's right-hand post. livi manager richard gough made three changes at the interval, bringing on defender goran stanic, midfielder gabor vincze, and striker ferenc horvath for bahoken, derek lilley and mark wilson. but, in the opening stages of the second period, little changed. however, the west lothian side gave themselves a lifeline with a controversial goal. eric deloumeaux sent jason dair away on the right and he tried to give the ball to mcpake, who looked to be in an offside position. the livi striker ignored the pass, however, and dair ran on to it and played easton in at the back post and he headed home from close range. the home side called for offside against mcpake but referee alan freeland ignored their claims and pointed to the centre-circle. livi went all out for the equaliser. in the 87th minute, burton o'brien was hauled back at the edge of the box by neil macfarlane, but dair sent his shot just inches wide.  gordon, webster, miller, hartley, neilson, mcallister, simmons (macfarlane 64), berra, burchill (wyness 82), mikoliunas (cesnauskis 77), wallace.  moilanen, kizys.  berra, webster.  miller 1, mcallister 10.  meldrum, mcnamee, bahoken (stanic 45), deloumeaux, strong, dair, easton, mark wilson (vincze 45), lilley (horvath 45), o'brien, mcpake.  mckenzie, hand.  : vincze, horvath.  easton 60.  9,796  a freeland home phones face unclear future  the fixed line phone in your home could soon be an endangered species.  research by handset maker nokia shows that more and more people are using their mobile phone for every call they make or take. according to the study, more than 45 million people in the uk, germany, us and south korea now only use a mobile. it showed that people keep their fixed line phone because call charges are lower, but most of those questioned said the future was definitely mobile.  the nokia-sponsored research showed that mobiles and fixed phones were used for different purposes. home phones were used for longer calls but conversations on mobiles tended to be shorter, between mobiles and to friends. in the uk 69% of those questioned said they turned to their fixed phone because it was still cheaper to use than a mobile. however, when pressed few could say with accuracy how tariffs on fixed and mobile phones compared. in the us and germany many of those interviewed said they used the fixed phone because it was more reliable than a mobile handset and let them get access to the net at relatively